jason capital



The New Science of
S U C C E S S and
ACHIEVEMENT




HIGHER
STATUS
HIGHER STATUS
Higher
STATUS
 The New Science of S U C C E S S
    and AC H I E V E M E N T




jason capital
COPYRIGHT © 2017 JASON CAPITAL
All rights reserved.


HIGHER STATUS
The New Science of Success and Achievement


I S BN 978-1-61961-599-1 Paperback
        978-1-61961-598-4 Ebook                               CONTENTS

      I N T R OD U C TIO N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........................ 9
1. B E C OMI N G HIG H STATU S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 29
2. H I G H - S TATU S DESTINY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 4 3
3 . H I G H - S TATU S B O DY L ANG U AG E . . . . . . . . . . . . ...................... 69
4 . H I G H - S TATU S V O IC E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...................... 89
5 . H I G H - S TATU S EYE C O NTAC T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................... 109
6 . H I G H - S TATU S WAL K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 123
7 . H I G H - S TATU S STATE C O NTR O L . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 13 9
8 . H I G H - S TATU S C AR EF R EE NE SS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 165
9 . H I G H - S TATU S TR U TH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................... 189
10. H I G H - S TATU S R AP P O R T C O NTR O L . . . . . . . . . . ................... 209
11. H I G H - S TATU S C HAR ISM A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................... 229
12. H I G H - S TATU S STYL E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................... 24 5
13 . H I G H - S TATU S ENV IR O NM ENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... 261
      C ON C LU S I O N . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................... 283
      A C K N OW LEDG M E NTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................... 295
      A B OU T T HE AU THO R . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................... 299
             INTRODUCTION

I had heard about him for months. Some people said he
was a genius, a playboy, or some combination of the two.
But opinions are like nostrils, right? Everyone has at least
two. I had to see with my own eyes what this guy was
all about.


I watched him closely as he stepped on stage as a coach
in front of hundreds of dedicated fans, guiding everyone
from millionaires and A-list celebrities to authors, artists,
and computer geeks. I saw a guy that seemed incredibly
happy traveling across the world with his longtime girl-
friend and closest friends. When it was time to return
home from beautiful vacations to places like Bali, Thailand,
and Rome, he boarded a jet to Newport Coast, California,
back to his mansion overlooking the Pacific Ocean.


                                            INTRODUCTION!·!9
This guy had it pretty damn good. How did it happen
for him? How did this twenty-seven-year-old kid with a
high school diploma and no college degree accomplish so
much in such a short period of time? After all, this was a
guy who had been sharing a 500-square-foot apartment
with roommates and unsuccessfully nagging the landlord
to fix the broken air conditioner.


How did he transform himself from a painfully shy,
unhappy, low-status person with floundering relation-
ships, no money, and no future prospects to an inspired,
high-status multimillionaire with great relationships,
boundless energy, and a team of more than 200,000
people spread throughout 125 countries who trusted and
followed his every move? He wasn’t just living a high-sta-
tus life, but he was reaping all of the benefits that came
with it. I was completely fascinated.


It’s surreal for me to sit here and try to understand the
truth about this particular guy. Why? Because he’s me.
His story is my story, but it can also be yours.



HOW IT STARTED

At twenty years old, I had never had a girlfriend. I had
barely even kissed a girl at that point. I was a six-foot-tall,
healthy, good-looking guy, but I had big problems with


10   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
girls. I was incredibly shy and just never knew what to
say around them. My solution was usually just to avoid
them at all costs. The possibility of rejection scared the
shit out of me.


I had just transferred to Michigan State University, my
fourth college in four years. A lot of my good buddies
went to MSU, and they were pumped to take me to my
first frat party. I had heard all of their stories about parties
and girls, but it was finally my time to experience it.


We got to the frat house, a huge, 10,000-square foot build-
ing with three floors full of alcohol, drugs, and inebriated
college kids. I was decked out in what I like to call the
“average person uniform,” which consisted of a nice but-
ton-up shirt, blue jeans, Vans shoes, and gelled-up hair.
This outfit screams conformity—I was a sheep following
the herd. My friends all looked the same, but I quickly
learned they had far surpassed me in the social scene.


Within five minutes of arriving at the party, my friends had
already started talking to a group of girls. Three minutes
later, one of my buddies had one of the girls thrown over
his shoulder, spinning her around as she giggled. Another
friend was breathing fire out of his mouth as another girl
applauded him. These guys just had it rolling—they knew
exactly what to do. One by one, they each paired up and


                                               INTRODUCTION ·   11
left the party until it was just me and the last girl from
the group, a cute Midwesterner with blonde hair and a
little button nose.


“Shit,” I thought to myself. “I guess I’ve got to try to talk
to her.”


I approached her and ran through the same boring
interview process that dooms most conversations with
new people.


“Hey, what’s your name? Where are you from? What’s
your major?”


It was terrible—just the most clichéd questions you can
ask someone. Of course, I wasn’t really interested in the
answers, and she could tell. After about thirty seconds,
I noticed her eyes darting around the room, looking for
anyone else she could talk to.


“Listen, it was really nice meeting you, but I’ve got to go
find my friends,” she said as she turned her back.


In less than a minute, I had gone from meeting a girl to
having her walk away from me, leaving me alone with
only my red Solo Cup to cling to. At that moment, I knew
I had to change something.


12   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
ATTRACTING ATTENTION

As soon as she walked away, I bailed on the frat party and
sprinted directly back to my apartment. I was frustrated,
I was embarrassed, and I was tired of failing. Something
had to change. I set a new, bold personal goal: to become
the world’s greatest seducer. I know, I know, it sounds a
little puerile, but that’s how motivated I was to become
more self-confident around others. I gathered all the psy-
chology material I could get my hands on and immersed
myself in learning about the ins and outs of both male
and female psyches. Polarities, spiritualities, energies,
sexual chakras—you name it, I read about it.


A few weeks later, I returned to the same frat house, only
this time I was prepared with new techniques, tricks, and
talking points. And guess what? It worked, because I was
actually able to hold a conversation with a girl for a few
minutes. It was progress. The following weekend, I was
able to land the phone numbers of not one, but two girls
in my apartment building. More progress. I was getting
pretty damn good at talking to girls, but it still wasn’t
perfect. I had no trouble talking to most girls at parties
or at bars—unless they were stunningly beautiful. If I
felt like a girl was way out of my league, I had no chance.


Someone had to be attracting these girls, right? Once
I started to pay attention to the kind of guys that dated


                                          INTRODUCTION ·   13
these girls, it became clear: they didn’t use any special
techniques or pickup lines, and they damn sure didn’t
need to consult textbooks as thick as phone books for
advice. So, what was different? It was simple, but I had
never thought to look for it before: they carried them-
selves differently. They moved differently, looked at
people differently, and spoke with a different tonality than
the average person. There was a certain calm and cool
demeanor they exuded, and girls picked up on those little
subconscious signals. I also noticed the most successful,
respected, and sought-after girls exhibited the same traits.
It wasn’t a coincidence. I didn’t realize it at the time, but
that was my first introduction to the idea of “high status.”
These people were literally broadcasting the high-status
signal to everyone around, and it was responsible for all
the great things they were going to get and achieve in life.


One of my favorite quotes comes from Jerry Sternin, who
helped pioneer the concept of positive deviance. He said,
“It’s easier to act your way into a new way of thinking, than
think your way into a new way of acting.”


In other words, what you do is more important than what
you think. That was the difference between me and the
other more confident, more successful guys. So many
of the self-help books and personal-development gurus
available today focus on changing our beliefs and what


14   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to think, but, in reality, it’s our actions that matter. It’s
not what we think or say, but what we do, that makes all
the difference.


Look, like I tell all my clients, it’s important to be honest.
Most people say they don’t make snap judgments about
others, but the truth is everyone does. How do we make
these snap judgments? By looking at the actions and
behaviors that signal status. Does this make us bad people?
Of course not.


Scientists at Harvard and Oxford have only recently dis-
covered this is a natural part of our brain’s protective
functioning. It instinctively tunes into the status signal
another person is sending out, and it quickly decides
whether that person is high status or low status. Winner
or loser? Someone I’d like to do business with or not?
Someone I’d like to date or not? Someone I would hire
or not? It’s in understanding or resisting this one fact of
life that getting your dream life either becomes very easy
or very hard.


Understand: the psychology side of success and achieve-
ment—that’s a small side dish. The juicy steak, the main
course that’s going to feed your spirit and help get you
the life of your dreams on a silver platter, is your actions,
your behaviors, your status signal.


                                             INTRODUCTION ·   15
TRYING SOMETHING NEW

With this new knowledge fueling me, I decided to try a
little experiment. First, I dropped all the pickup tech-
niques I had taught myself over the previous few months.
The guys I had been watching didn’t need them, so why
should I? I then asked myself two questions: What celeb-
rity or public figure do I personally, truly admire? What
celebrity or public figure does the opposite sex seem to
be attracted to? Take a minute to think about your own
answers to these questions. It doesn’t matter if you’re
male or female, having a high-status person to study and
model yourself after is important.


At the time, Iron Man was a huge hit and it seemed like
every girl I knew thought Robert Downey Jr. was the hot-
test guy they’d ever seen. I admit, Iron Man is my favorite
movie of all time, but I defy anyone to find a film character
comparable to Tony Stark. You’ve never seen anyone carry
himself the way he does in that movie. He’s one of a kind.
The way he moves, even things as subtle as a slight turn of
his head when his assistant-turned-love-interest Pepper
Potts comes downstairs to his workshop stood out to me.
He doesn’t drop all his work the second Pepper enters the
room, because he sees himself and what he’s doing as
extremely valuable. That’s a high-status mind-set. Some-
one with a low-status view of themself would drop what
they’re doing immediately. If Tony Stark is in the middle


16   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
of something, he will take an extra ten, twenty, or thirty
seconds to finish before slowly turning his head. It’s calm,
it’s controlled, and it’s at the rate that he wants to move.


What that does is frame the interactions between Tony and
Pepper. He’s essentially saying, “I’m not more important
than you in this situation, but I am establishing that I am
important and what I’m doing here matters. You’re going
to have to wait a second.” That’s entirely physiological. He
didn’t use affirmations or incantations or change his entire
way of thinking. He simply changed the way he acted, and
suddenly, she responded to him differently, with more
respect for his time and attention. One little change in
his status signal and her entire view of him changed.


The next time I went out, instead of trying different tech-
niques or specific lines, I just carried myself differently.
I modeled Tony Stark, a guy that succeeds with the type
of women I wanted to attract. Your model doesn’t have
to be a film character played by Robert Downey Jr. As a
woman, it can be someone like Beyoncé. Who it is doesn’t
matter, as long as you have someone to model. From the
moment I accepted that, everything changed. It was like
night and day.




                                           INTRODUCTION ·   17
BECOMING A COACH

I had a paradigm shift in my understanding, and it was
incredible. It felt like I had unlocked a secret truth that
most people couldn’t understand. I was in uncharted
territory, like I had the answers to a test others didn’t
even know existed. Of course, people eventually started
to take notice, and that had both positive and negative
consequences. I started to draw more attention from
people, which was great—except for the hate from some
of the Michigan State fraternities. A lot of the girls at their
parties became more interested in me than any of the frat
brothers and, well, they didn’t exactly appreciate that.


I wasn’t always an enemy though. One of the frats had
a forward-thinking brother in its midst. Instead of just
talking shit about me from afar, he approached me and
basically recruited me.


“We’ve seen you around,” he said. “We know what you
do. Here’s what we want to do. We’d like you to come to
our frat a couple hours before our big party, we’ll gather
all of the brothers in the living room, and you can bring
a whiteboard and show us some of your secrets. We want
to learn.”


The same guy who was getting rejected and ignored by
people only a few months prior was now being asked to


18   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
teach an entire fraternity. You can’t make this stuff up.


“Of course,” I said. “That sounds fantastic. Let’s do that.”


I worked with a number of different frats, sharing
everything from my views on status and charisma to
conversation techniques. They ate it up. They loved it
so much, in fact, that they started telling their friends
outside the frat about me. Eventually I had guys coming
to my dumpy little apartment on Friday evenings and
paying me $20 to drink with them while I showed them
stuff on a whiteboard.


As word of mouth began to spread, I started getting clients
outside of just college-aged kids. Men in their thirties,
forties, fifties, even sixties. Doctors, IT guys, entrepre-
neurs, and other successful people who just struggled
with confidence and talking to women.


The more time I spent with my clients, the more I realized
I had not only a special talent for teaching, but for help-
ing guys achieve great results. I absolutely loved helping
people: it was a high I’d never felt before. For instance, I
had a client tell me recently that since he began working
with me, the revenue of his company increased by 400
percent. And, by the way, his company was already bring-
ing in $18 million annually before he met me. Stories like


                                           INTRODUCTION ·   19
that fuel me, and it makes me excited for what is possible
for you.


What quickly became the most interesting aspect of my
clients’ results was the wide-ranging scope of influence.
The guys I worked with found they were getting the results
they wanted with women and in their social lives, but
they also noticed they were getting different results at
home and work. Fathers began to notice their children
listening more attentively to them. Employees began to
notice they received better reception and treatment at
work. Female executives started to notice more respect
from their employees, without having to feel like they
were overcompensating.


It had become crystal clear: all of the status I was teach-
ing wasn’t just for getting girls. It became a highway to
getting whatever you want, whether it’s someone from
the opposite sex, money, fame, freedom, prestige, ascen-
sion—literally anything you want to do. Status became a
unique tool, separate from the sea of books, seminars,
and experts focusing on psychology. If studying those
materials is like filling your car with gas, then working
on your status is like upgrading the engine. You tell me:
wouldn’t you rather be driving a new Ferrari instead of
taking the bus with everyone else? We’re focusing on what
actually matters, and that’s what makes all the difference.


20   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
THE POWER OF STATUS SIGNALS

Being high status has absolutely nothing to do with money,
cars, clothes, titles, or shiny things. That’s the biggest
misconception about high status. Those material items
are just ornamentations that give off false status signals.
Material possessions are the opposite of honest signals,
which evolutionary psychologists define as something
that can be easily spotted and can’t be faked.


Honest signals indicate our status level, and high status
opens the door to many benefits in life. Some of those
benefits include:


 • Effortless attraction from the opposite sex: You
   never have to worry about whether someone is
   interested in you or not. According to Dr. David
   Buss, author of The Evolution of Desire, “Women
   in the U.S. do not hesitate to express a preference
   for mates who have high status.” That door swings
   both ways: men also prefer high-status women.
 • Increased financial stability: High-status individ-
   uals are the highest-paid people on the planet,
   regardless of their field. A study conducted by
   researchers at Duke University’s Fuqua School of
   Business found that CEOs with a higher-status
   vocal tonality made an extra $187,000 on average




                                          INTRODUCTION ·   21
      per year. You’ll never have to worry about your
      bank account running low again.
 • Increased attention at work: Quicker promotions
      and bigger salary raises are more common for
      high-status individuals.
 • Better relationships with family and friends:
      Parents are able to develop more meaningful rela-
      tionships with their teenage sons and daughters.
      You command respect and become a leader in your
      social circle.
 • Increased networking opportunities: Connecting
      with people at events, galas, industry parties, and
      other conventions becomes easy. The best net-
      workers and most connected people on the planet
      are all high status.
 • Planned purpose in life: You gain a fulfilling sense
      of purpose and excitement about where you’re
      going. Total freedom and control over the direction
      of your life becomes a reality. Life becomes fun
      again. What could be better than that?
 • Unexpected perks: You’ll start to get personal
      upgrades at restaurants, clubs, and airports for
      seemingly no reason at all. This happens to my
      clients and me all the time.
 • Health benefits: High status has been shown to cor-
      relate with human longevity and health. Research
      has shown that animals with lower status die sooner,


22   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
   contract more diseases, and recover more slowly
   than animals with higher status. Humans are no
   different. You will live longer, be healthier, and have
   more energy.
 • Increased loyalty from loved ones: Whether you’re
   a man or woman, you’ll be able to inspire unwaver-
   ing loyalty and devotion from your significant other.
   The harsh truth is people rarely leave high-status
   people: they leave low-status people.


Don’t be hypnotized by the mainstream media into think-
ing that higher status means possessing scarce resources
like a Lamborghini, Rolex watch, or a $5,000 Chanel
bag. That is complete bullshit. Status must be learned,
not purchased. Dr. Buss says, point blank, “Status and
possession of resources are separate qualities.” I can’t
state it any clearer myself.


Many of my clients ask me if they are too old to become
high status. They fear that old dogs can’t learn new tricks.
Again, that’s bullshit. Neuroscience has discovered that
the human brain is highly plastic, meaning it can be
re-formed and new behaviors can be learned at any age.
Status is all about behaviors. We’re not going to think our
way into a new way of acting: we’re going to act our way
into a new way of living. It doesn’t matter if you’ve spent
all sixty years of your life being low status. Give me a few


                                           INTRODUCTION ·   23
days to flip you to high status, and you’ll immediately
begin to gain control over your emotions, relationships,
and destiny. Don’t you want to be living the life of your
dreams? Of course, you do. Let me help you achieve it.


The American public bore witness to a powerful example
of status signals during the infamous 1960 presidential
debate between Richard Nixon and John F. Kennedy.
Nixon appeared sweaty and weak, and lacked good energy.
We know now, of course, that he was battling the flu, but
millions of television viewers had no idea. They just saw
someone who looked low status, especially compared to
Kennedy, who was younger, stronger, and more confident:
he epitomized high status. Despite Nixon’s lead in most
of the preelection polls, it was Kennedy who became
the thirty-fifth President of the United States, and his
televised display of high status played a major role in
that outcome.



WHO IS JASON CAPITAL?

I get a lot of labels thrown at me—teacher, guru, marketer,
speaker. Others just call me a world-class salesman with
nothing to offer. I’ve heard them all. If I had to define
myself with a single title, it would be “coach,” but I always
remind my clients of a simple yet effective saying: labels
are fables. Don’t allow yourself to be boxed in by other


24   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
people’s definitions. You need to determine who you are
and who you’re going to be in this world every day.


I have served as a coach and consultant to everyone
from Fortune 500 executives and professional athletes
to New York Times best-selling authors and award-win-
ning Hollywood executives. I was recognized as a top
100 entrepreneur by President Barack Obama, and I’ve
received more than 10,000 success stories from clients
around the world. I was put on this planet to make people
high status, and help them obtain all of the incredible
things they want and deserve in life. And that most cer-
tainly includes you.


Everyone needs a mission in life, a greater purpose. We
all need something that pulls us forward. A lot of people
ask me, “What is your mission with Team Capital? What
are you doing with this book? What is the ultimate goal?”
My mission is to transform one hundred million people
into the highest-status versions of themselves.


When I transform one hundred million people into high-
er-status individuals, there will be a massive downstream
effect that affects everyone in their path, almost like an
invisible hand. Instead of existing as a boring cog in life’s
spinning wheel, the high-status version of yourself will
stand out as an inspiring, charming, charismatic, loving,


                                            INTRODUCTION ·   25
and caring human being who is amped up about life. And
on top of all the incredible benefits you’ll reap, it’s also
going to have a positive effect on your family, friends,
and coworkers. It could illuminate their own path to
high status.


This book is for anyone who has any desire to be more than
they currently are. Most people are happy with the way
they are. They’re comfortable, and they give in to the pull
of the familiar. Most people are content to simply wake
up, eat a boring breakfast, get in their boring car, drive
to their boring job, do boring work for eight hours, have
boring conversations with their bored coworkers, drive
the same boring route home, where they may or may not
make boring, routine love with their significant other
before falling asleep in a boring bed. Wash. Rinse. Repeat.


People are bored. People feel stuck. And many have
already given up on themselves, while others are just
waiting for a miracle that’s never coming. Consider some
of these horrifying statistics:


 • Americans spent $70 billion in 2016 on lottery tick-
      ets. They spent $55 billion less on books.
 • Nearly 50 percent of all marriages worldwide end
      in divorce.
 • According to a study, the average American watches


26   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
    more than five hours of TV. Per day. Even worse,
    according to another study, when given the choice
   of watching TV or spending time with their father,
   54 percent of kids chose TV.


Emerson once famously said, “Most men lead lives of
quiet desperation.” He wasn’t wrong, but it isn’t just men
who are losing their extraordinarily valuable lives right
before their very eyes. Men, women, and even children
today are increasingly leading lives of quiet desperation,
and the crisis is only picking up speed. You see it all around
you: people’s lives slipping from their grasp, yet they don’t
have the power to stop it. We now live in a world where
not being high status will hurt you, frustrate you, and
have you spending years going nowhere. That’s why the
successful breakthrough science shared inside this book
has already transformed the lives of thousands worldwide,
with hundreds more joining every day. And you, my friend,
are next. So, turn the page. Let’s get to it.




                                            INTRODUCTION ·   27
                    Chapter One



  BECOMING HIGH STATUS

When I was thirteen years old, I made a pact with my
closest friends to play on the eighth-grade basketball
team. We all played together on the weekends and, at
least skillwise, were about on the same level. We all went
to tryouts together. Everyone had a great time. I couldn’t
wait to play on the same team with them—it just felt right.


The coach posted the roster list in the locker room the
next day. I couldn’t control my excitement. I sprinted
past my friends, who had already seen their names on
the list. They were high-fiving each other, talking about
what numbers they were going to wear on their jerseys.
As I scanned the list, I began to feel sick. When I reached
the bottom and didn’t see my name anywhere, it crushed
me. I was convinced it was some sort of mistake.


                                   B E C O M I N G H I G H S T A T U S ! · ! 29
I rushed into the coach’s office and asked what happened.
All I got from him was, “Sorry, Jason. Better luck next year.”
That was it. I felt overwhelmed, so I sprinted straight
home. I burst into my bedroom, teary-eyed and heart-
broken. To my thirteen-year-old self, it was the end of
the world. All of my friends made the team and I wasn’t
going to be able to hang out with them every day. I was
going to be alone.


What happened next is difficult to explain, but it felt like
a spark of lightning from Zeus in the clouds. The tears
stopped and it hit me like a ton of bricks. “Fuck this,” I
thought. “I’m going to play college basketball.” It was a
ridiculous dream, of course. I wasn’t even five feet tall,
weighed less than 100 pounds, and had maybe a six-inch
vertical jump. I did not have the factory-installed parts
that are normally found in college basketball players.


One thing I had that few others did was an ability to
become obsessed with a subject—in this case, basketball.
Over the next five years, I spent every free moment I had in
the gym, making a thousand shots each day, going through
ball-handling drills, and scrimmaging. Nothing could stop
me from playing college basketball. By my senior year of
high school, I was one of the top point guards on the travel
basketball circuit and I ended up getting recruited to play at
Eckerd College, a Division II school in Tampa Bay, Florida.


30   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
When I got there, it was fun at first, but I felt so burnt out.
For years, I had spent thousands and thousands of hours
pursuing this dream of playing college basketball, and
when I finally achieved it, it felt empty. I realized I was
never going to be this all-time great player. I would never
have the natural ability to play in the NBA, but I knew I
had the ability to develop a healthy obsession with—and
eventually master—a singular subject. That’s what I did
with basketball.



THE NEXT STEP

I might not have had a shiny new NBA contract after hang-
ing up my basketball shoes, but I had major confidence
that I could learn and master any new skill. When I moved
back home and transferred to Michigan State to reunite
with my friends, I was ready to immerse myself in some-
thing new. After my experience at the frat party, I began
poring through books on everything from psychology
types and cognitive biases to seduction books written by
Italian author Giacomo Casanova. As I mentioned earlier,
I was intrigued by Jerry Sternin’s belief that it’s easier to
act your way into a new way of thinking than to think your
way into a new way of acting. Millions of people try to
improve their lives daily by changing their thinking, when
the truth is they’d get there much faster if they focused
on improving their actions. With better actions comes


                                      B E C O M I N G H I G H S TAT U S ·   31
better thinking. The more insights I absorbed, the more
I began to formulate my own ideas.


Posture, body language, eye contact, tonality, charisma,
storytelling, even breathing—these are all small things
that people don’t focus on, but greatly affect the impres-
sion they make. I’m going to share a quick but incredibly
important science lesson with you now: pay close atten-
tion and take it to heart, because it will be a theme we
revisit throughout this book. When someone meets you
for the first time, their subconscious will immediately
decide a few things about you. It doesn’t matter if it’s your
coworker, a first date, your grandmother, or a complete
stranger. The first decision is whether you are safe or a
threat, and this happens in less than one hundredth of
a second. If you’re out with a group of friends and a big,
scary guy walks in wielding a machete, it doesn’t take you
a couple of minutes to analyze the situation. You know
immediately that your safety is being threatened.


The second thing people will decide about you, after deter-
mining you aren’t a threat to them, is what your status
level is and how it compares to theirs. They will instantly
assess whether your status is higher than theirs, lower than
theirs, or about the same. This is a survival mechanism
that has been ingrained in our subconscious for hundreds
of thousands of years.


32   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
How does someone know if another person is high status,
neutral status, or low status? We can make a determina-
tion thanks to the twelve honest signals of higher status.
Evolutionary psychologists have researched animals, from
peacocks to gorillas, and concluded that they display
honest signals. These signals allow animals to display
their status level to potential mates or others in their tribe
or territory. For instance, a male peacock will spread its
wings to attract a mate. Female peahens will choose their
mate based on the color, size, and quality of the feathers.
That is an honest signal: a peacock can’t fake its feathers.


Human beings attempt to cheat this with Lamborghinis,
Louis Vuitton heels, and other lavish material items. They
are trying to signal high status with those types of trap-
pings, but those are not honest signals. We don’t trust
those. Our subconscious hasn’t been trained to accept a
$5,000 Chanel bag as an honest signal. This is why you
can see a high-status person, like Elon Musk or Robert
Downey Jr., with a $100,000 Tesla or Lamborghini and
think, “Yeah, that makes sense.” But if you see a video
online of someone you don’t know with a Lamborghini,
it will feel like something is off. That’s because Musk and
Downey are truly high status on a subconscious level,
while the other guy isn’t. How can our brain tell? In a
fraction of a second, it gauges for a mix of the following
twelve signals:


                                     B E C O M I N G H I G H S TAT U S ·   33
1.    Destiny
2. Body language
3. Voice
4. Eye contact
5. Walk
6. State control
7.    Carefreeness
8. Truth
9. Rapport control
10. Charisma
11. Style
12. Environment


Once you have mastered all these honest signals, every-
one you meet will instantly recognize you as high status.
You’ll become naturally unforgettable, develop magnetic
charisma in both your personal and professional lives,
and enjoy deeper, more meaningful connections with
your partner, friends, and family.



STATUS HIERARCHY

Every single person carries with them a map at all times.
Not a physical map, but a status hierarchy that includes
every other person they meet. We’re constantly making
these instantaneous readings of people, every time we
enter a new environment or context, deciding if they’re


34   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
high status, medium status or low status, and they are
doing the same with us. Everyone wants to know where
they stand in the status hierarchy, from the boardroom
to the bar to family picnics. We are constantly making
these judgments in our life. This is an evolutionary mech-
anism, but how do people decide where to place you in
their hierarchy? What affects this split-second decision?


Keep in mind that the human brain is not a camera. It does
not take perfect pictures of the external world and file
them away for future viewings. The mind cannot capture
exact images: instead, it labels. Again, the labels we’re
looking for here are high status, neutral status or low status.


I’ve had many people disagree with me about the human
brain. They’ll say, “People aren’t that shallow. They
shouldn’t judge. I don’t judge.” I don’t laugh in their
face, but honestly, that’s just nonsense. Snap judgments
happen all the time, even unintentionally. Is this a cool
person? Is this not a cool person? Is she a punk girl? Is
he an athlete? We are constantly looking to label people.
This quick, snap-judgment labeling is known as invisible
status judgment. Ninety-nine percent of people never
learn to understand this, but the lucky few who do have
been thriving with it for centuries.


These instant snap judgments allow us to turn on the TV


                                     B E C O M I N G H I G H S TAT U S ·   35
and, when we see George Clooney, recognize him imme-
diately as high status. A guy like Artie Lange, for instance,
we know is low status. It’s the same difference between
a high-status woman like Oprah Winfrey, and someone
like Lena Dunham, who is undeniably low status. You just
know it when you see it. It’s the same snap judgment that
lets someone know whether you’re attractive or not, lets
the boss know if you’re worthy of a promotion or not, and
makes an audience love you or forget you.


People might only look at one or two of the twelve honest
signals of higher status to make this snap judgment. This
is normal. It’s also not uncommon for people to have a
few signals that are more polished than the others. In that
case, we want to broadcast those as clearly as possible to
ensure you’re constantly being perceived as a high-status
individual. Every snap judgment will come down to these
honest signals, and those will determine everything that
happens to you in your life.



THE GREATEST TRUTH OF ALL TIME

Remember this next sentence—circle it, highlight it, write
it down, save it in your phone. The world will accept the
judgment you place on yourself. It’s worth repeating: the
world will accept the judgment you place on yourself. That,
my friends, is the greatest truth of all time.


36   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Whatever message you convey with your tonality, eye
contact, body language, style, charisma, state, mood, and
energy, among other signals, will be received by everyone
you meet. They are gathering a judgment of yourself from
you. If you see yourself as an unworthy, low-status, low
self-esteem person, that will permeate all of your sub-
communications and prevent you from living a life that
energizes you, that you truly love. If you place a low-status
judgment on yourself, you will continue to drift through
life without a true purpose to fuel you.


On the flip side, if you see yourself and carry yourself as a
high-status, high-value, high-self-esteem individual, that
will shine through in everything you do. Without verbally
stating anything, you are communicating to the world
that you are high status, and others will treat you as such.
You’ll be viewed as a leader instead of a follower, someone
who commands respect from your friends, family, and
coworkers. You’ll evolve from someone that exists in the
background of rooms to the most memorable, desirable
person in every room you enter.



THE PATH TO HIGH STATUS

Before we go any further, I want you to take a moment
and make a decision. Becoming high status is a choice,
and it’s one that only you can make. I can’t make it for


                                     B E C O M I N G H I G H S TAT U S ·   37
you. Mom and Dad can’t make it for you. Your kid, your
significant other, your friends—none of them can make it
for you. You must make it for yourself. I’m going to show
you how to do it, but the first step is making the decision.


This decision will require what’s known as a self-image
switch. How you judge yourself, your own self-conception,
the idea of yourself—this is your self-image. This is basic
psychology. Dr. Maxwell Maltz wrote a great book titled
Psycho-Cybernetics that takes a deep look at self-image
psychology. In it, he wrote, “Self-image sets the bound-
aries of individual accomplishment.”


This is a simple, yet profound concept. If you see yourself
as a person who can only make $10,000 a month, you will
never make more money than that. Your own self-image
determines the limits of your accomplishments.


Another powerful example of self-image comes from
Keith Johnstone, one of the greatest innovators of improv.
In his book, Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre, John-
stone tells the story of the improv class he taught in the
1960s. He tried over and over to get the actors to portray
strong, powerful characters, but they could never get it
right. Eventually, he tried a different angle. “Just try to get
your status level a little bit above your partner’s,” John-
stone told them. That was his only cue, and it changed


38   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
      F AST AC T I O N E X E R C I S E : S TAT U S VA MPIR ES
As you continue to increase your status every day, you’re going to realize
that it takes energy. It takes energy to accomplish anything important in
life. The things that rob us of energy are what I call “status vampires.” If
you don’t have your status vampires under control, you won’t be able to
do anything effectively.

We have many, many, many of these status vampires that continually
drain our energy. Maybe you started a workout program or signed up for
a kickboxing class, but you only attended the first session of a four-week
program. A week later, you might find yourself thinking about it. Status
vampires are secretly there in all of us, slowly sucking our energy all day
long. When you start something in life but don’t finish it, it sticks with you,
inhabiting your subconscious.

It’s like running your computer with fifteen programs open in the back-
ground. How’s your computer going to operate efficiently with that much
of an energy drain? Human beings are no different. So, how do we combat
status vampires?

STEP 1
For the next six minutes, I want you to write down everything on your
mind. Leave nothing to waste: get it all out of your head and down on
paper in front of you.

STEP 2
Now, mark an X beside each item that robs you of the most energy. These
are your status vampires. There’s something called the Pareto principle,
which typically finds that, in most things in life, about 20 percent of the
activities can account for 80 percent of the results. It will be no different with
your own list. Twenty percent of the items you just wrote down are robbing
you of 80 percent of your energy. Identify them and put an X beside them.

STEP 3
Now, write down an actionable step you can take to put closure on each
of your status vampires. Status vampires are, by definition, things we have
started but haven’t finished. If you signed up for a workout program but have
fallen behind, commit to catching up and finishing it. Or instead, start a new
program you know you can finish. Either way, you are closing that status
vampire. It will no longer consume energy by taking up space in your mind.

An alternative to closing a status vampire by completing it is to simply
let it go. Consciously say to yourself, “This isn’t helping me. I just have to
drop it.” If you’ve been thinking about the workout program, but it’s just
not something that’s important to you, let it go. Get it out of your mind.
By reducing—and eventually eliminating—status vampires, you will see a
massive return of energy.
everything. Intuitively, all of the actors understood what it
meant to be higher status, just like they understood what
it meant to be lower status.


Johnstone’s improv experiment reinforces this simple
truth: you already have all of the tools you need to become
high status. What you must do is honestly identify the
status level you have been assigning yourself. What level
have you maintained, but more importantly, what level
will you reach now? That is the key question.


The only thing I need from you right now is your final
commitment, before we take the first big step in the next
chapter. Do you want to become a person of influence,
someone who lives a passionate, driven, and exciting life?
Do you want to wake up every morning ready to attack
the day with every ounce of your being? Do you want to
stop spinning your wheels and start spreading your wings?
If so, that journey starts right now. You must commit to
becoming a high-status person for the rest of your life, not
only for yourself and all the achievements you will garner
from that decision, but for your kids, friends, and family
as well. They will be inspired by this massive change in
you, and you will feel that response.


With that is going to come a lot of responsibility. Imag-
ine it: you’re going to become a beacon in your social


40   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
circles, a leader in your family, and the center of your
community. Sure, that’s a bigger weight to carry, but it’s
also an enormous source of power for you. You’re going
to become the rare, standout superstar that can effort-
lessly inspire change, make a real difference, and leave
a lasting impact on those lucky enough to be involved in
your high-status journey.


You might not know where that journey is going to lead yet,
and that’s OK. Actually, it’s better than OK—it’s awesome.
Picture it: as everyone else continues to go nowhere and
do nothing while following the same old clichéd advice,
you’re entering a new world where you’re about to dis-
cover the true success technology that only a privileged
few have ever encountered. Your life is about to take off
like theirs did. Are you ready? It starts right now with your
high-status destiny.




                                     B E C O M I N G H I G H S TAT U S ·   41
                    C h a p t e r Tw o



    HIGH-STATUS DESTINY

When we think about high-status individuals through-
out history, there is a common thread among them all.
Whether it’s a great king from antiquity, the leader of a
conquering army, like Alexander the Great, or a CEO of
a major corporation in modern times, they all display
high-status destiny. These people were born to be a king,
queen, conqueror, or CEO.


They have a grand, unique purpose for being on this planet.
They know why they’re here and what they’re meant to
do, and therefore don’t deal with the uncertainty others
do. So many people spend their entire lives feeling like
they have no purpose, no great reason why they were born.
That’s especially true nowadays in a world populated
with 7 billion people. A lot of people find their sense of


                                    H I G H - S T A T U S D E S T I N Y ! · ! 43
belonging through family and friends, others through
their work, but that can often be a shallow distraction. At
the end of the day, when they shut off the TV and close
Snapchat, Instagram, and Facebook, there’s an empty
feeling. They feel alone. A lot of people purposely avoid
reflecting on this because it’s scary as hell to think your
life has no deeper meaning. The population is the highest
it’s ever been, which makes it easy for people to feel a
sense of insignificance, like they don’t really matter. But
that couldn’t be further from the truth.


Times are different now than they were thousands of
years ago. You and me and everyone else on the planet,
we don’t have the benefit of being born with thrones to
inherit or kingdoms to rule, and we probably don’t have
family money to rely on. We’re just regular people, right?
But that doesn’t mean we can’t find, create, or claim our
own purpose for being here.


When you do discover your high-status destiny, you’ll
recognize a change in your daily life immediately. You’ll
feel excited, passionate, and truly alive, like you’ve been
filled with an energy you never even knew you had. Instead
of waking up in the morning and thinking, “Oh great,
another shitty day to get through,” you’ll say, “Hell yeah!
Let’s go, this is awesome.” You’ll also start to notice that
other people will look at you differently. Everyone from


44   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
the barista at Starbucks to your own family members will
recognize the energy you emanate. You’ll burn with a rare
fire that everyone will immediately pick up on.


Maybe you already had that fire earlier in your life as
a kid, but a teacher or a parent or someone else in an
authority role extinguished it. Maybe they told you your
dream, whatever it might be, wasn’t possible, that it was
just wishful thinking. When I look around the world today,
everyone’s fire is out. It’s sad, but it doesn’t have to be
that way. Remember, your destiny isn’t something you
find under a rock. It’s something to be created, nurtured,
developed. You—only you—can grant yourself permission
needed to start creating it now.



SHALLOW SUCCESS VERSUS DEEP PURPOSE

Many of you reading this book have already found success
in your lives, and that’s awesome. Maybe you’re pulling
in a nice salary, or have the nicest house on the block, or
you just have a great social life—however you measure
success, that’s great. But what is your destiny? Success is
easier to achieve than truly finding your purpose in life.
My life is a perfect example of this.


When I was in my early twenties, I was making somewhere
between $15,000 and $20,000 a month with one of the


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   45
first online businesses I launched. I had a cool apartment
in the Gaslamp Quarter of San Diego, and I was constantly
meeting girls and making new friends. I thought I had it
made. Literally, I felt like I was ready to retire. If I could
have made that much money every month for the rest of
my life, I was beyond content to live out my days hanging
on the beach. On the surface, it all looked perfect, but in
reality, something was missing: I had no purpose.


After a few months, the appeal wore off and, like anyone
without a high-status destiny, I grew more and more
miserable. Without a true passion, I drifted along until I
picked up a new activity—smoking marijuana. I had never
really tried pot up until that point, but one of my friends
convinced me. The next six months were a haze, both
literally and figuratively. I wasn’t accomplishing anything,
but being perpetually in a in a pot-induced, feel-good
mood, I didn’t give a shit. The highs offered a temporary
escape, but when I reached the end of those six months, I
was just a stoner with no money left in his bank account.


I mostly ignored the business that had been making me
almost $20,000 a month, so of course it fell apart. I had
no job, no money, and, worst of all, no passion. I had
no destiny. I had to swallow my pride, pack up all my
shit, temporarily move back home to my parents’ house
in Michigan, and just hope that I’d figure out the next


46   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
step. I knew I had to give up the pot—that was an easy
decision—but I was about to learn that I hadn’t even hit
rock bottom yet.


One of my first nights back home, some of my buddies
from college hit me up to come out for some drinks. To
them, I was the one kid in the group that had actually
started to become successful and moved away from Mich-
igan—to sunny California, no less. They had no clue the
financial trouble I was in, and of course I didn’t want them
to know. I had to keep up the front.


When the time came to order the second round of shots
at the bar, I stepped up. “Shots are on me!” I pulled out
my card and handed it to the bartender like the rock star
I was pretending to be. About twenty seconds later, he
came back with the bad news.


“Sorry man, this card was declined. Wanna try another?”
Shit. Not good.


I gave him a different card, but I already knew it would
get declined. My heart was racing, my mouth was dry. I
was just beyond embarrassed. “It’s probably just the bank
protecting me since I’m traveling and not in California
right now,” I told them, hoping they bought it.



                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   47
Most of them didn’t think twice, but one of my buddies
saw through my act. He paid for the shots and pulled me
aside. “Hey man, so you’re living back home right now
and your card just got declined. Is everything OK? You
can tell me, it’s cool.”


In retrospect, that was such a great way for him to ask me.
He genuinely cared, and he wasn’t trying to embarrass
me, but at the time, I couldn’t accept that. I straight up
lied to his face. “Business has never been better. I just
wanted to spend a few weeks here at home.”


The next morning there was a knock on the front door. I
was the only one in my parents’ house, so I answered it.
There, standing in front of me in the doorway, was the
happiest little girl I had ever seen. She proceeded to give
me a well-rehearsed sales pitch asking for school library
donations. The local elementary school needed new books
for the library, so students were going door-to-door asking
for, at minimum, $10 donations.


Being unemployed and broke, I had no money to offer
this sweet little girl, but I couldn’t tell her that. So, I lied
again. “Hey, no thanks. I appreciate it, but I don’t really
believe in that sort of stuff.” It was a stone-cold lie for the
ages because I am absolutely obsessed with reading and
learning: seriously, every room in my room is stacked


48   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
with books. Her shoulders slumped and her eyes welled
with tears as she turned and started walking to the next
house. My heart sank.


I’ve never felt lower than that moment. I felt like com-
plete shit. I was tired of being unemployed, tired of the
numbers in my bank account looking more like than area
code than a phone number, tired of lying to people—just
tired of all of it. I decided that day that something had to
change. Being unable to donate $10 to a local school was
my “enough is enough” moment.


Finding your high-status destiny isn’t necessarily going to
involve visiting a crystal-ball reader, backpacking through
Europe, or hanging out in the jungles of New Zealand until
an idea comes to you. The first, and most important, step
is simply deciding that enough is enough.



COMMITMENT TO YOURSELF

Are you excited by life? Do you feel alive and inspired
every day by your pursuits? Or do you feel purposeless?
Do you feel like you’re just floating through life, like a
leaf being tossed aimlessly by a wind you can’t control?
This is something only you can answer, and you have to
be honest with yourself.



                                     H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   49
Maybe you’ve already decided enough is enough. Maybe
that’s why you picked up this book in the first place. If
so, awesome. If not, don’t stress. Everyone’s “enough is
enough” moment is going to be different. Sometimes it
comes from listening to someone else, or hearing another
person’s story. My moment came when I had to lie to a
little girl’s face. For Michael Jordan—yes, that Michael
Jordan—it came when he was cut from his high school
team as a sophomore.


Long before he had six NBA championship rings and
was widely regarded as the best player ever to touch a
basketball, Jordan was just an undersized kid hoping to
play for his high school’s varsity team. When he didn’t
make the team, it crushed him, but he didn’t wallow in
sadness. Instead, it ignited a fire deep inside Jordan that
propelled him to unmatched levels of greatness. The fol-
lowing year, he made the varsity team. Two years after
that, he accepted a scholarship to the University of North
Carolina. Three years after that, he was drafted by the
Chicago Bulls and, well, the rest is history. But it all started
with that “enough is enough” moment back in high school.
You can have that moment right now. If you’re tired of the
same old shit and want something better, I’ll help you find
what you’re truly destined for.


The truth is, when someone doesn’t know what their


50   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
greater purpose in life is, they will lack aliveness. You
can just tell by looking them in the eyes—they’re not com-
pletely dead inside, but they’re on their way, and it’s kind
of scary. I see it when I go to the grocery store, where obese
human beings toss box after box of Twinkies and Twiz-
zlers into their overflowing shopping cart. I see it when
I go to corporate offices, where the receptionists are too
distracted by their cell phones to greet guests. And I see it
in far too many studies, like the one that found more chil-
dren prefer TV over interacting with their parents. David
Deida, an author who has written a number of books on
the relationships between men and women, describes
this perfectly. Deida writes, “Every man knows that his
highest purpose in life cannot be reduced to any particular
relationship. If a man prioritizes his relationships over
his highest purpose, he weakens himself, disserves the
universe, and cheats his woman of an authentic man who
can offer her full, undivided presence.”


Deida writes that from the perspective of a man, but the
same is true for women: nothing should trump your pur-
pose. The most important thing in life isn’t what other
people are doing on Friday night, how many likes your last
online post got, or what’s happening on Game of Thrones.
It’s your purpose, your destiny. If you ignore your purpose
and continue to float through life, you’re doing yourself
an incredible disservice. But if you follow your purpose,


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   51
you’re making a true commitment to yourself. It’s a pow-
erful feeling. Trust me, I know from experience.



FOLLOW WALT DISNEY’S LEAD

A lot of people think that Walt Disney became immortal
once he created Mickey Mouse, but in reality, his empire
was still growing. He wanted to build Disneyland at a time
in the 1950s when amusement parks weren’t common-
place. He wanted to bring his passion to life and share it
with everyone: that was his high-status destiny.


Others didn’t see it that way. They told him he was crazy,
that something like that would never work. He was turned
down for financing over 100 times. When someone with
no destiny in life is told they can’t do something, they’ll
believe they can’t and give up on it. Walt Disney was dif-
ferent. He had already tasted success with the creation
of Mickey Mouse and Minnie Mouse and the rest of his
classic animated characters, but he believed he was des-
tined for more. When investors and other people told him
they appreciated what he had done with the animation,
but that they didn’t think he could build a massive amuse-
ment park that would draw visitors from across the globe,
he didn’t take it as a slight. He simply thanked them and
moved on to the next option. Destiny does not slow down.



52   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
When Walt Disney was younger, no matter where he was
or what he doing, he was always drawing. Even when he
was a teenager and in his early twenties, before he moved
out to California, his coworkers noticed that he’d always
be drawing at his desk. While they would spend their
breaks playing poker or just hanging out, Walt would stay
put and draw. What a perfect illustration of high-status
versus low-status destiny. Maybe drawing started out as
just a hobby for Walt, but it quickly became his passion
and then a healthy obsession. It consumed him in a bril-
liant, positive way.


If you look at the most successful men and women
throughout history, you will find this pattern among all
of them. Everything they’re doing and thinking, every
conversation they’re having, is based on their destiny. It all
revolves around the big thing in life they’re excited about.
In today’s society, you hear constant talk about a work-life
balance. Bullshit. That was created by people who aren’t
immensely successful. It’s an idea created for lazy people
who lack ambition. In their eyes, the Walt Disneys, Steve
Jobses, and Elon Musks of the world have no work-life
balance. The truth is, they don’t need a work-life balance:
they love what they are doing so much that to put it aside
would be a downgrade. It would make them unhappy.


Understanding your high-status destiny gives you a


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   53
laserlike focus in life. Dean Martin was notoriously laser
focused. When he would get a new movie, he would tear
out every single page of the script that had dialogue that
didn’t include him. Any time a scene that didn’t involve
him speaking was being filmed, he didn’t know what the
hell was going on. You can argue it’s a bit narcissistic, sure,
but you can’t argue about his focus. Dean Martin was so
locked in on his own lines that nothing else mattered.



WHY CAN’T YOU?

Walt Disney and Dean Martin and all of these other leg-
endary people are great examples to look back on, but
what about you? What’s holding you back from realizing
your high-status destiny?


It’s never too late to change. Always, always remember
that. Research has shown that neuroplasticity is a very
real thing. Human beings’ brains are highly plastic: we can
learn new things, change our behavior, and ingrain new
patterns of behavior throughout our entire lives. Your past
doesn’t define your future. Previous failure—or success—
doesn’t guarantee anything moving forward. Once you
come to your “enough is enough” realization, you have
to take an action toward changing your situation. That’s
when everything can start to change. Your past has noth-
ing to do with that, unless you use the past as motivation.


54   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Let’s be honest: lives that are easy are uninteresting.
Oprah Winfrey had an incredibly painful and traumatic
childhood. She could have let those experiences define
her life and set her on a much less glamorous path than
the one she ended up on, but she didn’t. She has a quote
where she said, “I don’t think of myself as a poor, deprived
ghetto girl who made good. I think of myself as some-
body who, from an early age, knew I was responsible for
myself and I had to make good.” She went through living
in poverty, being sexually molested, and losing a child
at fourteen years old, but she came out of it thinking, “I
have to make good as an adult.” That’s pretty amazing.


Andrew Carnegie, who is one of the most financially suc-
cessful men in the history of the world, once said, “The
richest heritage a young man can have is to be born into
poverty.” It’s one of my all-time favorite quotes. Here’s
one of the richest men ever, and he’s saying the richest
heritage someone can have is to simply not be born into
a rich family. Someone who is born rich can’t relate to
not having money. They don’t understand the fear of
being broke.


I didn’t grow up in a wealthy family, so I know what
that’s like. I know how it feels to have no money, and
that keeps me going sometimes. I will never allow myself
to go back there.


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   55
Sometimes I think about the time I had to move back
home to Michigan. I remember being so broke I couldn’t
afford a cleaning lady to come to my San Diego apartment
before I moved. I spent hours cleaning the place, including
the marijuana ash stains in the kitchen. It was humbling,
embarrassing, and, most of all, painful, but I never allowed
myself to get angry. Even at the time, when, on the surface,
I was at my lowest point, I knew it was going to make a
great story when I eventually became successful.


I give this advice to a lot of people at my seminars, but
I want you to remember this: one day does not make a
lifetime. When you go through those tough moments,
you will move past them. It’s just one page in the entire
book that is your life, and no one wants to read a book
that’s nothing but happy moments. Our own unique trials
and tribulations are what make our journeys unique.
Embrace them. Use them as a catalyst, so you can say,
“Enough is enough. I’m never fucking doing that shit
again, ever.”



IMPACT ON OTHERS

One of my good friends recently had his first child. He’s
approaching his midthirties and I’ve known him for about
a decade. I never thought he would have a kid, but now
that he does I have to admit, he’s a great father. He told


56   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
me that the moment his daughter was born, a lot of the
lesser priorities in his life just fell by the wayside.


Becoming a parent forced him to grow as a person, and
he could no longer waste time on B and C priorities. His
focus shifted to the A priorities, which are his family and
his work. That’s it—that’s his destiny. Once that shift hap-
pened, the effects became pretty amazing. When he wasn’t
spending time with his daughter, he was working. Pretty
soon, he began to make more money than he ever had.
None of the other people in his local group of friends have
kids, so they all just drift through weeks in search of the
weekends, so they can get fucked up and forget how much
they really don’t enjoy their lives.


My buddy used to live like that too, but once he became
a father, that changed. He gave up the weekend partying.
He just doesn’t have the time for it anymore. But once his
friends saw how hard he was working, how focused he
had become, how disciplined his life was, some of them
followed his lead. His actions caused them to reflect and
think, “Wait. I don’t necessarily have to lead this boring,
uneventful, uninteresting life like everybody else. I don’t
have to work a boring nine-to-five during the week and
just go get drunk every weekend.” It’s a liberating—and
infectious—feeling.



                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   57
His friends decided to dedicate their lives to their passions,
rather than remain in the week-to-week rut. They didn’t
look at my friend, the new father and hard worker, as self-
ish or narcissistic, but rather as a leader, a bright beacon
to follow. He became a light that illuminated their path.
What that does, of course, is continue the cycle: friends
of theirs begin to see their change and follow them, and
friends of those friends do the same thing, and so on. It’s
like a never-ending cycle.


High-status destiny also makes life simpler. How so?
Research has shown that multitasking is not a desirable
quality. In fact, it’s a sign of low intelligence and creates
stress. In the 1990s, multitasking was the shit. People
would proudly announce on their résumés that they were
“an excellent multitasker.” That’s great and all, except
now we know the brain isn’t designed to multitask. It
causes stress, and that’s not a good thing. When you know
what your destiny is, life becomes a lot simpler. Rather
than stressing over decision after decision, some far less
important than others, you can just ask yourself, “Does
this serve my purpose or not?” What could be simpler than
one question? If the answer is yes, great. If the answer is
no, don’t waste your time on it. Simple. Clear. High status.


This decisiveness is simple, yet one of the most profoundly
desirable traits on the planet. Humans typically like to


58   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
follow people who are decisive. It gives us a sense of safety
and comfort. One of my mentors, legendary businessman
and coach Dan Peña, always says, “I may be wrong, but
I’m never in doubt.” Fucking classic. It’s so true though:
people will follow someone who’s decisive, whether or
not they’re always right. Writer Elbert Hubbard once said,
“Leaders are people who make quick decisions and are
sometimes right.” There’s no hesitancy when you know
what your purpose is. You might not always be right, but,
like Peña says, you’ll never be in doubt. That’s such a
powerful notion.



SET YOUR GOALS TOO HIGH

When Ted Turner’s father died, he left behind two things
for his son. The first was a $2 million trust fund, which is
pretty cool. The second was just a piece of advice. He told
Ted, “Set goals that you cannot achieve in this lifetime.”


Let’s be honest: how many people do you know that actu-
ally think like that? Probably no one. It’s rare, and typically
only found in those with a high-status destiny. When you
have something big that you’re working toward, some-
thing so big that you don’t think it can be achieved in this
lifetime, that turns you on. That’s damn exciting. A great
example of this is businessman and entrepreneur Elon
Musk, who wants to put people on Mars. He’s not even


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   59
fifty years old yet, and that’s a goal he may not be able to
achieve in his lifetime, yet he’s still working tirelessly at it.


P. T. Barnum is best known for cofounding the Barnum &
Bailey Circus, but here’s a quick history lesson for you. He
was also the second self-made millionaire in American
history, behind Ben Franklin. Pretty cool, right?


Barnum might be most famous for his circus, but he was
a man of many talents and accomplishments. Case in
point: his museum in New York City had 850,000 different
displays. You read that right—850,000 displays in a single
museum. Just think about that for a minute. It blows my
mind. It’s almost impossible to even imagine that many
items in a single building.


The circus came later in his life, but there’s plenty to study
from his earlier years. Barnum is basically the father of
modern publicity. The guy was brilliant. For him to gather
that many items for display in a single museum, how
central do you think his purpose was? How rampant was
it in his life and his thought processes? That was all he
was committed to in that moment, and it made him rad-
ically successful.




60   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
DON’T WAIT

How often do you hear people say, “I just need an oppor-
tunity?” All the time, right? Well, guess what? It’s bullshit.
While they’re sitting around waiting for an opportunity
to just come along, they’re not preparing like they have
a title fight coming up. So, if they’re just waiting and not
preparing, they won’t be ready when they do eventually
get a chance. Always stay prepared.


Robert Downey Jr. is one of my favorite people on the
planet, and if you didn’t know that already, you will by
the end of this book. His life has been far from a smooth
ride, so it’s a good thing he didn’t sit around and wait for
his chance to break back into Hollywood.


It’s well documented that Downey struggled with a drug
addiction. He spent time in jail, got fired from Ally McBeal,
and even bottomed out by mistakenly stumbling into a
neighbor’s house and passing out in one of their beds.
His life was a mess for quite a while. Want to guess how
much he made for his last Avengers movie? Only $50
million. That would have never happened if it hadn’t
landed the starring role in the first Iron Man movie, and
that definitely wouldn’t have happened if he just “waited
for his opportunity.”


Downey knew he was made for the role—it was his singular


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   61
purpose at that time—so he begged director Jon Favreau
for an audition. Typically, established actors like Downey
don’t need to audition, but he had spent weeks prepar-
ing for it. From morning until night, he did nothing but
rehearse and practice for the role. He said, “I felt like a
fighter that was training for a title bout that hadn’t been
booked yet.” When he showed up for the audition, his
brain shut off and his preparation took over. By the time
he was done reading, there wasn’t a single person in the
room who wasn’t certain they had just seen Iron Man.


I know what you’re thinking: Jason, that’s an awesome
story and all, but how the fuck can I compare to world-
class actor Robert Downey Jr.? Easy—just think of the
onion. No, don’t start crying. The onion is unique because
it has layers. Finding your high-status destiny is just like
peeling the layers of an onion.


As you start down your own high-status path, you’ve got
to begin with the low-hanging fruit, which is the very
first thing in front of you. Even if you don’t think it’s your
destiny long-term, attack it with 100 percent commit-
ment. Don’t put it off. By taking action now, you’re moving
forward. That’s how you start. Eventually you’ll begin to
notice that you’ve become a stronger, smarter, better-de-
veloped person, because you’re living life like a high-status
individual. By attacking that one thing, you’ll shed that


62   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
first layer, and when that happens, you’re in a new place.


For the second layer, attack the next thing on your path.
Attack, attack, attack. Another layer will come off, and
you’ll evolve with each layer you shed. Each time you do
this, you get closer and closer to the core of your onion,
your destiny in life. I had to peel off multiple layers before
I found my true cause. First, I thought I was going to play
professional basketball, then I built my first online busi-
ness, then I helped guys become successful and confident
with women. Now I’ve reached my core and my purpose
is something that would make Ted Turner’s father smile:
I’m going to make 100 million people become high status.
Is that a goal I can achieve in my lifetime? Maybe, maybe
not, but it consumes everything I’m doing and drives me
forward. In fact, once your life changes for the better after
applying the science and knowledge gained from this
book, I’m going to ask you to help me with that. But not
until I truly help you out first. Sound good? Cool.



RAFTING IN BALI

I went to Bali with my girlfriend for about two weeks in
2015. It’s an amazing country, full of beautiful scenery and
some of the happiest people you’ll ever meet. One day,
we went whitewater rafting. It was fucking intense. We’re
talking like four-plus hours of heavy duty, intensive rafting.


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   63
When we finally got to the end, everyone in our group was
relieved. They were exhausted and wanted nothing more
than to sit down and smoke a cigarette. Oddly enough, it
seemed like everyone else in our group smoked cigarettes.
They were pissed when they learned that our excursion
hadn’t quite ended yet. We still needed to carry our pad-
dles and the raft up a massive, half-mile staircase back
to the starting point.


Groans and profanities just erupted from these people,
they were so angry. Me? I picked up my paddle and raft
and started sprinting up the stairs. I have a high-status
destiny. I’m excited about life, and I was excited about
the new experience I was having in Bali. Why would I let
some stairs ruin that? Everyone else was yelling shit at
me as I sprinted past them, but guess what? That’s going
to happen sometimes. Just take that as a sign that you’re
doing things correctly—that you’re on your high-status
destiny path.



DESTINY IS A MUSCLE

People aren’t born with certain abilities. No one is born
to be a successful businessperson, an all-time great bas-
ketball player, or an award-winning musician. They have
to train to accomplish these feats. The same goes for the
body. No one is born with giant biceps, toned legs, or a


64   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
great ass. You have to train those muscles. Your high-sta-
tus destiny is no different.


It doesn’t matter what layer of the onion you’re in, you
can attack it with all the strength you have, knowing that
it’s going to be building a muscle that will grow stronger.
Each day you will become stronger and more powerful.
A perfect example of this is Richard Branson. How many
businesses has he built? Hundreds—everything from
Virgin America and Virgin Records. He’s constantly
peeling off new layers of his onion with his continued
dedication to taking action. Every time he starts a new
business, even if it ends up failing, it wasn’t a failure in
his eyes. The point for Richard Branson was never to be a
perfect businessman, but to have fun, make some money
and help people.



FUNERAL EXERCISE

This is one of the major exercises I put everyone in my
seminars through, because it helps point you in the direc-
tion of your high-status destiny. Imagine the following
scenario: you walk through a dark hallway into a room
you’ve never seen before, but as you enter, a bright light
illuminates the entire room. As you take a few steps inside,
you notice that a lot of the people you’ve known in your
lifetime are there, and they’re all dressed nicely.


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   65
You are invisible to them—they can’t see or hear you,
but you can hear and see them. As you listen, you notice
they’re sharing stories about times you were happy and
excited. As you get closer to the front of the room, you
realize you’re in a funeral room—and it’s your funeral. You
do another few laps around the room and listen to more
stories. People aren’t overcome with grief that you’re gone,
but they’re remembering all the good times. They’re
talking about you in a really positive way.


OK, now grab a pen and paper. It’s time to answer
four questions:


 • What were they saying about you?
 • What were the big accomplishments that you
      achieved in your lifetime?
 • On a scale of 1 to 10, how do those accomplishments
      make you feel?
 • If you were to increase any of those scores to a 10,
      what would have to happen? What would need to
      be different to raise the score?


By answering these questions, you’ll have a list of accom-
plishments that you subconsciously want in your life.
When we do this exercise, we’re able to shed all of the
expectations and rules that other people place on us. You
can think clearly about yourself and your life. Now, you


66   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
have a starting point, an unpeeled onion. This is the place
to start building your high-status destiny.


But your destiny, as important as it is, is one piece of a
larger pie. Your destiny will certainly fuel you and keep
you energized on a daily basis, but how you broadcast
yourself to others through your body language is another
important aspect of high status. Can you become the
highest-status version of yourself with weak, low-status
body language? Have you been broadcasting low-status
body language, without even realizing it, and costing
yourself major opportunity after major opportunity? It’s
very possible, so let me tell you all about that now, starting
with a fascinating body language discovery.




                                       H I G H - S TAT U S D E S T I N Y ·   67
                   Chapter Three



        HIGH-STATUS BODY
            LANGUAGE

Here’s a fun stat for you: approximately 60 to 65 per-
cent of all interpersonal communication is comprised of
nonverbal behaviors or body language. Nonverbal com-
munication can reveal a person’s true thoughts, feelings,
and intentions. In poker, we call it a “tell,” right?


Isn’t it interesting—I’d also argue alarming—then, that
most people spend the majority of their time focusing on
what to say, what to wear, or how their hair looks. Only
7 percent of interpersonal communication consists of
actual spoken words, yet everyone focuses on what to
say and what not to say. Seven percent for spoken words
compared to sixty-plus percent for body language. It’s not


                               H I G H - S T A T U S B O D Y L A N G U A G E ! · ! 69
even close: our body language says everything about us.
People understand instinctively that they can’t always
trust people’s words or facial expressions, but we trust
body language. We learn from an early age how to tell
white lies and convey those lies with our faces, but we
don’t think about our bodies. Body language is an honest
signal of status, and it’s incredibly important.


Remember this next sentence—it’s one of the most
important things you can understand about your own body
language. High-status people will make themselves com-
fortable first. This is a shocking distinction because we’re
taught to not infringe on anyone else’s space—personal
space, right? I’m telling you to take up more space. Human
beings are most comfortable when they’re expanded,
when they’re open. When you’re a high-status person, the
energy and attention in the room is typically centered on
you to begin with. If you enter a room and immediately
make yourself comfortable, it subconsciously gives every-
one else permission to be comfortable as well. People
follow the lead of high-status individuals.



UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

People in China speak a different language than people in
Switzerland, at least verbally. Physically, they speak the
same language. Body language is universal and instantly


70   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
recognizable. It’s the language spoken all over the world,
so it makes sense to become well versed in speaking that
language. It’s also easy to master. The problem is that no
one is teaching it.


Seriously, there are so many self-help seminars being
taught by life coaches that focus on changing your belief
system. What a crock of shit. I don’t know where that
all began, but I really hope this book puts an end to
it. Achievement doesn’t come from the psychology of
changing your beliefs: it comes from physiology. Always
remember that. You need to have the physiology of a
high-status person to ensure you become successful and
become someone other people want to be around. We
don’t need to focus on journaling or affirmations or walk-
ing over hot coals to make that happen. All we need to
do is move our leg a few inches to the left, put your arm
over the chair next to you, and take a deep breath to relax.
Boom. In ten seconds, your body language went from low
status to high status. Change can be affected instantly
with something as powerful as high-status body language.


If you need further proof, let me share with you a quick
story about one of my clients. He’s a sixty-six-year-old
doctor with a PhD from Harvard who constantly trav-
els the world with his girlfriend. He’s been a number
of my courses, so he came to understand the power of


                               H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   71
high-status body language. He saw it firsthand at a disco
in Thailand.


He was at the bar with a few of his buddies, just enjoying
a night out. There was a group of girls to their left that
were being hit on obnoxiously and aggressively by another
group of guys nearby. Understandably, the girls got sick
of it, so they began talking to my client and his friends.
The other group of bros didn’t appreciate that.


“What the fuck do you think you’re doing?” one of them
said to my client’s face.


My client didn’t flinch. He didn’t get nervous and fidgety,
He remembered OGSP—which you’re about to learn—and
calmly replied, “I’m having a good time.”


That was it. Five words. The other guy didn’t know what
to do. After a few seconds of staring my client down,
he walked away. Even though this guy was thirty years
younger and almost certainly could’ve beaten my client
in a fight, he picked up on the high-status body language
my client was displaying.



MORE BENEFITS

Social psychologist Amy Cuddy gave an incredible TED


72   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Talk presentation on research into what she refers to as
power poses. According to her research, if you stand in
a power pose for only two minutes, you’ll get a rapid
increase in testosterone and a simultaneous decrease
in cortisol. What exactly is a power pose, you ask? It’s
OPGS—being open and grounded, taking up space.


Our body language affects our hormones and the chemi-
cals in our blood stream, which in turn affects our mind-set.
When you enact this high-status way of living through just
your body language, you become a different person.


It’s pretty amazing stuff. You’ll become more relaxed,
feel more powerful, become more naturally assertive
and gain physical benefits, just from enacting high-status
body language in everything you do. You should always
be aware of your body language, whether you’re sitting
or standing.


There are four components of high-status body language.
Not forty, not 400—just four simple things to keep in mind.
I want you always remember the acronym OGSP. Again,
it’s OGSP. The letters stand for open, grounded, slow, and
priding. Let’s break each one down.




                               H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   73
OPEN VERSUS CLOSED

You can probably picture this in your mind already. The
top sign to look for here is the distance between right and
left joints. If your right and left wrists are close together,
you’re closed in that area. Same with your right and left
elbows. Same with your knees, shoulders, and ankles. If
your hands are crossed, that’s another sign. If your arms
are crossed, that doesn’t necessarily mean you’re closed.
It’s all about the context of your entire body and the space
you’re occupying. When you’re closed off, you’re signaling
that you feel low status in comparison to others in the
same room. This type of body language is opportunity
avoidant and responsible for countless missed opportu-
nities in people’s lives.


On the flip side, a high-status person will keep their body
open. Their right and left elbows, wrists, knees, and ankles
will be farther apart. If you’re sitting down, you might
have your legs open a bit, or have your arm around the
chair beside you. You’re taking up more space without
being obnoxious. You’re indicating that you’re used to
the attention being on you, and for good reason: you’re
high status, and that’s where the attention goes. That
confidence shows through your body language.




74   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
GROUNDED VERSUS FLOATING

A high-status person will remain confidently grounded,
while a lower-status person will nervously float around the
room or fidget in their seat. Being grounded means your
energy is feeding back into your body instead of your mind.
It’s being present in the moment, instead of time traveling
to the past or the future. It means when you encounter
a challenge or a trigger, you remain firmly rooted within
yourself. You’re strong, you’re present, you’re here. Now.



SLOW AND CONTROLLED MOVEMENTS, OR NOT

No one wants to be around someone who’s fidgety or
nervous all the time. It makes us uncomfortable. That’s
a low-status characteristic, and it’s a huge turnoff. On the
other hand, if you imagine someone with grace and con-
trolled movements, they’re signaling high status. Why?
Because it indicates they are comfortable in that situation.
Nothing fazes them.


It doesn’t matter if you’re in the boardroom or the bar:
this is universal. Low-status people let nervousness take
over their bodies to the point where they become almost
unbearable to be around. We like to be around people
who appear comfortable. A high-status person, even if
they are feeling nervous, will still present themselves in
a slow and controlled manner.


                               H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   75
Imagine you’re underwater. How would you move
underwater? It’s not super fast or fidgety, but more of a
controlled, comfortable pace.



PRIDING VERSUS HIDING

Priding means exactly what it sounds like: you’re damn
proud of who you are and what you’re doing. Someone
on their path of high-status destiny is going to be proud of
that, and it will be reflected in their body language. Imag-
ine you just won the Super Bowl, or the NBA Finals. You
wouldn’t be playing small or hiding away, right? You’d be
up, open, priding. You’d be comfortable drawing attention
to yourself. You’d be so excited about life, you wouldn’t
even be thinking about it. High-status people are proud,
and they’ve got nothing to hide.


Someone that’s hiding is, again, doing exactly what it
sounds like. They’re wearing ill-fitting clothes and their
body language is closed up instead of open. They’re taking
up as little space as possible. We pick up on all of these
signals immediately. Closed, hiding body language is
unappealing, but open, priding body language helps make
you irresistibly appealing to the opposite sex.




76   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
HIGH STATUS OR LOW STATUS?

I can write pages and pages about every single aspect of
body language, but the most effective way to teach you to
distinguish high status from low status is through visual
aids. We had some fun here at the Capital compound and
put together a quick little photo shoot to illustrate some
of the key aspects of body language.


Take up more space: We already covered open versus
closed, and this is basically the same idea. If you’re closed
up, you’re taking up less space. By opening up your body,
you’ll be taking up more space. Take a look at the two
accompanying photos. What stands out to you?




                               H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   77
The body language on the right is high status, while the
body language on the left is low status. In the right photo,
the woman is clearly open, grounded, and priding, right?
Compare that to the left photo, where she is closed up,
not grounded, and hiding. She is not taking up her per-
sonal space.


Keep your head still: Fidgeting and other nervous
behaviors are low status, and we’ll explore more on those
in a bit. Regarding your head, it’s fairly straightforward:
keep it still.


Keep the room in front of you: You don’t need to be
onstage to have the same effect as this photo of me at
one of my events.




Any room where you can position yourself to have the
wall behind you and the room in front of you will have
the same high-status effect.


78   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Wide animation: There’s a difference here between a
high-status wide animation and a low-status, over-the-top
display. Keep your arms inside your own personal space,
like I am doing in the next photo.




Note how I’m using my hands in an animated way, but
keeping them within my personal space. Picture someone
making a crazed, emotional, histrionic display and what
their arms look like during it. They’re flying all over the
place, right? You don’t want to do that. Moving your arms
outside of your personal space in that manner crosses
the threshold from wide animation of presentation to
low status.


No fidgeting: Tapping your feet, cracking your knuckles,
rubbing or wringing your hands together, touching your
neck—any form of fidgeting you can think of is negative.


                              H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   79
You’ve got to focus on eliminating it. Look at these next
two photos. What stands out to you about them?




Which one of these photos is displaying high-status body
language? It’s the one on the left. That’s a high-status
hand position, in which she used her thumbs to gain an
edge. In the other photo, she is wringing her hands in a
classic low-status behavior.


Focus on the hands: You can say a lot about your
status with just your hands. Get in the habit of practicing
“steepling,” which is touching all of your fingers at the fin-
gertips to create a gesture that resembles a church steeple.
The accompanying photos can be used as a reference.



80   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Nonreactive to environment: A high-status person
doesn’t let their environment affect their body language.
Whether it’s loud or quiet, crowded or empty, hot or cold,
it doesn’t matter. You alone control your status. Later in
this book, we’ll take a deeper dive into high-status state
control, which is the ability to control your state regardless
of external factors.



                                H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   81
Point foot away: Your feet are often one of the most
honest signals of how you are feeling. When engaged
in a conversation with someone, by simply pointing one
of your feet away from them you will convey you have
somewhere else to be.




                                It’s not being rude.
                                You just have to keep
                                moving because you’re
                                on your path to your
                                high-status destiny.
                                This is something we
                                will revisit in more
                                detail in the chapter
                                on carefreeness.


                                Sitting: Did I miss my
                                calling as a model or
                                what? I’ll leave that up
                                to you to decide, but
                                in the meantime, let’s
                                focus on the high-sta-
                                tus seated position
                                on display in the next
                                photo.


82   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Notice how I’m leaning back and taking up my personal
space by extending my left arm over the top of the seat next
to me and placing my right arm behind my head. When we
are in a fearful, low-status state, we tend to unconsciously
cover and guard our torso area. Why? Because all of our
most important internal organs reside there.


When we’re feeling more relaxed and in control, we nat-
urally lean back and open up our torso. It signals high
status to everyone in the immediate area.


                              H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   83
MAKE IT NATURAL

All it takes for you to learn a new standing or seated
high-status position is one positive response. One source
of positive feedback is all it takes for your brain to remem-
ber that position for future situations.


Let’s say you’re out at a bar and, since you’ve just read this
chapter, you’re being mindful of OGSP. If you strike up a
conversation with a cute girl, you’re not going to lean in
closer to talk to her. Ladies, you know what I’m talking
about. That’s closed body language, right? Instead, you’re
going to remember OGSP and lean out. There’s a very
simple saying I teach all my clients: when in doubt, lean
out. Remember that.


The next time you find yourself in a similar situation, your
brain will recall the time you leaned out instead of leaned
in. And what happens when you lean out? She’ll lean for-
ward because she’s more invested in the conversation.
That’s a good thing. You’ll start to get different responses
than you’ve ever gotten before, solely because of your
body language. A simple technique like leaning back can
be insanely effective. Case in point: one of my friends
utilizes the lean-out as his sole move during business
negotiations, and he has more cash than he knows what
to do with.



84   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
To make anything completely natural, you have to con-
stantly practice it. You have to become a long-term student
of body language to master it. Observe it, study it, notice
it. What I recommend to everyone is to find two high-sta-
tus models. One should be someone you don’t know—an
actor, YouTube star, TV star, something along those lines.
The second should be someone you can see in person—
someone in your office, at your gym, or at the local bar.


Watch the way they move, sit, and stand. Study them. If
you’re watching them on TV, try muting the sound and
just focus on their body language. Pick up on their move-
ments and practice them in your own life.



BODY LANGUAGE EXERCISE

I want you to go back through the high-status body lan-
guage positions from above and choose just one. Pick the
one you think is the most intriguing or, if you’re really
adventurous, the one the feels most unlike you. After
you’ve picked one, I want you to focus on that position
for one day.


On day 1, wherever you go and whoever you’re with, just
focus on mastering that one position. At some point in the
day, it’s going to feel right, and you’re eventually going
to get a positive response. It might be from a coworker,


                              H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   85
family member, or friend. It doesn’t matter. What does
matter is that your brain will file it away.


On day 2, choose another position and do the same exer-
cise. Continue this until you’ve mastered all of them. In a
little over two weeks, you’ll have all these positions down,
and it will completely transform the way people look at
you and respond to you. Respect, recognition, attention,
and more.



WHAT-IFS

There are a few scenarios I get asked about specifically by
clients at my seminars, so they’re worth highlighting here.



PEOPLE NOTICE THE CHANGES

One of the worst places to adopt new body language posi-
tions is with your close friends. You might not think that,
since you’re comfortable with your friends, but they will
notice you moving differently.


“What is wrong with you?” “Why are you sitting like that?”
“Why are you standing like that?”


Don’t let questions like this make you uncomfortable. If
someone says something like that to you, just reply back,


86   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
“Yup, I feel fantastic! Thanks for noticing,” and then move
on your way. Simple.



I’M AFRAID

This is normal. All human beings have fixed patterns of
movement. Changing these patterns with new positions
isn’t always easy. It feels uncomfortable at first because
you’re so used to sitting and standing in a certain way.


What’s important to remember in this case is that every-
one around you, regardless of what they say, wants you
to be high status. No one close to you wants you to be
unsuccessful or less happy. Knowing that, you almost
owe it to all these people who are close to you to increase
your status as much as you can.


When you become higher status, you’re going to be able
to bring them into a bigger, better, brighter life. They’re
going to love it, and they’re going to love you for help-
ing them.



DON’T IGNORE YOUR BODY LANGUAGE

Your high-status future requires dedication to body lan-
guage. You’re not going to get there with low-status body
language. It’s just not possible. It’s critically important that


                                 H I G H - S TAT U S B O DY L A N G U A G E ·   87
you make a commitment to increasing your high-status
body language. It’s an honest status signal that’s there
for a reason.


You weren’t born to be low status, and the good news is
that with even just one fixed position of movement, you
can begin to reach high status. Now is the time to create
better, happier, and more effective body movements.


At this point, you’re attacking your destiny and you know
how to improve your body language. How does it feel?
Pretty damn good, right? Don’t slow down now. The next
high-status trait is one of the most genuine honest signals,
so it’s crucial that you dominate it. Let’s do it.




88   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                    Chapter Four



       HIGH-STATUS VOICE

Margaret Thatcher, the former Prime Minister of the
United Kingdom, was well known for her bold, occasion-
ally obstinate leadership style. Her nickname, after all,
was the “Iron Lady.” That’s pretty badass.


But Thatcher wasn’t born made of iron. In fact, like many
great public speakers throughout history, she worked with
a speech coach to perfect her pitch, tone, and delivery. In
the early days of her political career, Thatcher’s voice was
seen as too “shrill.” As she practiced more and more, she
lowered her pitch and perfected the steady, authoritative
tone that became her hallmark.


If you’ve never heard Thatcher speak, look up videos of
her. Then compare her voice to someone like, say, actress


                                       H I G H - S T A T U S V O I C E ! · ! 89
Fran Drescher, or actor Gilbert Gottfried. There’s no com-
paring the calm, high-status delivery of Thatcher to the
nasally, scratchy voice of Drescher or the high-pitched,
obnoxious voice of Gottfried, which we’ll revisit later.


As Thatcher perfected her high-status voice over the years,
her reputation as a powerful and respected leader con-
tinued to grow. If you’ve never given much thought or
consideration to your own voice, it’s time to change that.



THE POWER OF VOICE

Your vocal tonality is one of the most sincere of the honest
signals. Remember when we discussed things like expen-
sive cars and fancy handbags being dishonest signals?
It’s a facade that people see through. Your voice is not a
facade. You can’t fake having a high-status voice, just like
you can’t fake having a low-status voice.


When you have a high-status voice, people listen to you.
They respect you, admire you, and, most importantly,
become engaged by what you’re saying. With a low-sta-
tus voice, the reverse is true: people tune you out and
even tend to dislike you. A lot of research shows that
when people don’t like the sound of someone’s voice,
they extrapolate that dislike to reflect their entire view
of the person. Basically, instead of disliking someone’s


90   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
voice, we end up disliking the person. This is something
that happens subconsciously. Picture someone from the
opposite sex in your past that “got away.” You know what
I’m talking about. What if all the reasons you thought it
never worked out were wrong, and the key to getting them
could have been as simple as high-status vocal tonality?
It’s that powerful.


Everyone knows what tuning someone out looks like,
right? We repeat certain phrases—uh-huh, yep, I know, OK.
We start nodding our heads. It’s an automatic pattern that
we run when we’re tuning someone out. We hear them,
but we stop listening and just nod our heads until they shut
the fuck up. That’s what people do when communicating
with someone with a low-status voice.


Look, we live in a digital age. Take a look around the next
time you go out somewhere and just notice how many cell
phones you see. It will probably shock you. Cell phones
are great and all, but people are addicted to them. It’s actu-
ally pretty scary, but for you, it’s great—perfecting your
high-status voice will separate you further from the cell
phone addicts with low-status voices. The ability to carry
on a conversation is becoming a lost art. People seem to
talk in shorter sentences and phrases, maybe repeating
something they saw on TV or Netflix. It’s strange.



                                        H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   91
We live in a world where people can feel validation through
social-media channels like Facebook and Instagram.
Before the creation of all this technology, people had to,
you know, actually accomplish something to gain vali-
dation. They at least had to get dressed, leave the house,
and do something. Now you can get the same emotion
sitting on your couch. You can take ten minutes to craft a
perfect little text message, and, if it gets an LOL response,
you feel good about yourself. You might feel better for a
fleeting moment, but nothing’s actually changed. You’re
still sitting on a couch, wondering what to do with your
life or where it all went wrong. The sad but simple truth
is that people avoid real-life communication.


Like all of the honest signals in this book, your vocal tonal-
ity is a skill you must practice and keep sharp. It takes
practice to get it right, but this is a fantastic opportunity
for you. Never has there been a greater opportunity for
someone who just knows how to speak decently, not even
amazingly, to stand out like ever before. For our culture,
it’s a bad thing, but for you personally, it’s great. Take
advantage of it.



SPEAKING “DOGLISH”

My girlfriend and I have two French Bulldogs. We abso-
lutely love them, and since where we’ve living is close


92   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to 7,000 square feet, it’s an endless oasis for these two
twenty-pound dogs to explore. That’s also plenty of space
for them to piss and shit and, believe me, they’ve tagged
every single room. Hey, you have to know what you’re
getting into when you bring puppies into the house.


After looking around online, we found this fascinating
dog trainer. My friends and I call him the “Russian Dog
Whisperer.” One of his main training techniques is some-
thing he calls “Doglish,” which is the universal language of
dogs. It consists of two different vocal tonalities that dogs
immediately understand and respond to. One is a high-
pitched noise and the other is a deeper voice. If you’ve
ever had a dog, you already know this. Dogs interpret
high-pitched noise from a human as a reward. When you
say, “Yay, good boy” in a higher pitch, a dog is going to
get excited and run toward you. If you say, “No, bad dog”
in a lower pitch, there’s an instant physiological change
in their response. The happiness disappears; they might
run away and hide. They just want to get back to the high-
pitched voice. This is something that’s hardwired in all
dogs. Every dog will respond to these two vocal tonalities.
That’s Doglish. Pretty fascinating, right?



HUMAN TONALITIES

Human beings really aren’t that different. We are all born


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   93
with certain hardwired responses to specific tonalities, but
unlike dogs, we have more than just two. For our purposes,
we’ll focus on three of these tonalities—seeking rapport,
neutral rapport, and breaking rapport.




SEEKING RAPPORT

Take at a look at the vocal tonalities graphic included in
this chapter. You’ll see three lines moving horizontally
from left to right, each one representing one of the three
vocal tonalities. Seeking rapport, as it moves left to right,
curves upward at the end to reflect what people do with
their voices with this specific tonality.


One of the sample questions I use at my seminars to
illustrate this is, “Where are you from?” When some-
one asks, “Where are you from?” with a seeking rapport
tonality, there is an upward inflection at the end. That


94   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
implies you’re seeking rapport with the other person. You
see their status as higher than yours and are attempt-
ing to get on their level. This signals your lower status in
this interaction.


When we meet people we unconsciously view as higher
status than ourselves, we speak up to them. Low-status
people seek rapport with high-status people.



NEUTRAL RAPPORT

The line for neutral rapport just goes straight across. That
reflects what you do with your voice in this tonality, which
is completely flat. You ask, “Where are you from?” but
without any intonation. This signals neutral status.



BREAKING RAPPORT

The line for this tonality curves downward at the end,
opposite of seeking rapport. There is an inflection, but
it’s more negative. You envision that person being some-
where below you in terms of status level in that moment,
so you break rapport with them. This is where the phrase
“talking down to someone” comes from.


Generally speaking, I encourage everyone to stay in neu-
tral rapport most of the time, with some breaking rapport.


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   95
FIVE TRAITS OF HIGH-STATUS VOICE

Everyone you know who has a high-status voice follows
the same five traits, but they do it in their own unique way.
It’s the same principle as a jump shot in basketball. Every
player has the same basic components—the bend at the
elbow, the arc of the shot, the backspin of the ball—but
they all have a slightly different way of shooting. Stephen
Curry has a different form than Michael Jordan, who has
a different form than Kobe Bryant. You will discover your
own high-status voice.


There are two things to keep in mind before we dive into
the five traits. First, your voice can be trained like a muscle.
I mentioned this earlier, but it bears repeating. One of my
favorite examples of this is Clark Gable, who was known
as “The King of Hollywood.” Not many people know this,
but when he first started his career, he actually had a very
high-pitched voice. It was low status, and it negatively
affected his life to the point where he was almost forced
to change careers. But he worked on the same things we’re
about to highlight in this chapter, and steadily his voice
became high status. It became so high status, in fact, he
ended up delivering one of the most famous movie lines
of all time—“Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a damn”—in
Gone with the Wind.


Second, one of the key reasons why it’s so crucial for you


96   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to train and build your high-status voice is it will inspire
others to take action. Adlai Stevenson, a famous political
figure in the midtwentieth century, introduced John F.
Kennedy in 1960 by saying, “Do you remember that in
classical times when Cicero had finished speaking, the
people would say, ‘How well he spoke’; but when Demos-
thenes had finished speaking, they said, ‘Let us march’?”
That’s the difference right there. A high-status voice will
inspire people to action.


This will impact all walks of your life, whether at work, at
home, or romantically. If you’re a mother and your child
doesn’t listen to you, I assure you they’ll pay attention
to a high-status voice. If you’re used to going on dates
and having the other person tune out while you talk, that
won’t happen anymore.


Now, before we jump into the five traits of high-status
voice, I need you to do one last thing: picture someone you
believe has a high-status voice. It can be an actor, actress,
politician, world leader, sports commentator, athlete,
friend—literally anyone at all, as long as you believe they
have a high-status voice. I want you to hear them in your
mind and recall a time, whether it was a personal con-
versation, a scene in a movie, or something else, where
you picked up on their unique, high-status voice. As we
go through the five traits, see how they line up.


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   97
AUTHORITATIVE

A high-status voice has a certain oomph behind it. It’s
not hesitant and it’s not questioning. Think about the
person you just picked for the question above. Do they
speak with authority? Of course, they do. I don’t even
know who you chose, but I know the answer is yes. Listen
to their voice, and practice mimicking it. Not their exact
voice—remember, you’re developing your own unique
voice—but practice speaking with the same tonal authority
they do. It’s a muscle and it needs repetitions to grow.


The other secret behind having an authoritative vocal
tonality is posturing. At all of my events, I like to run
people through a simple exercise to show how import-
ant posture is. First, adopt a shitty, low-status posture by
sinking into your seat, hunching your back, and leaning
forward. Now, imagine you’re an army general and giving
a speech to your troops before a battle. It’s impossible to
give an authoritative speech with some oomph behind it
from that low-status posture.



CLEAR

The worst thing in the world to me is when someone asks
me to repeat myself. It kills me. It’s a signal to me that I’m
not articulating clearly enough. A high-status voice is one
that speaks, articulates, and enunciates clearly. Think of


98   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
any great speech or presentation given throughout history.
They all have a clear message and are clearly delivered.


How do you train yourself to become clearer? There are a
few things to keep in mind. First, be aware. Think about
it: as long as you’re aware of your articulation struggles,
you’re not going to continue making the same mistakes.
If you notice yourself not being articulate, are you just
going to be like, “Well, guess I wasn’t articulate today?”
Bullshit, of course not. You’re going to stop, restate the
line, and fix it. It’s called self-correction, and all of the most
successful people in the world do it.


The second, and my personal favorite, way to train your-
self is through tongue twisters. This is a fantastic way to
warm up for speaking. Newscasters and sportscasters
will often go through vocal warm-ups before going on-air.
Once you get really good at tongue twisters, you won’t
have any issues speaking clearly. You can find tongue
twisters online, but I’ve got to share a few of the ones I
love. Practice these over and over and over, no matter
how badly you screw them up at first or how ridiculous
you think you sound.


 • Whether the weather is cold, or whether the
    weather is hot, we’ll be together whatever the
    weather, whether we like it or not.


                                           H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   99
 • If Stew chews shoes, should Stew choose the shoes
       he chews?



UNAFFECTED

A study at Kent State concluded, “People unconsciously
adapt to each other’s voice tones, a phenomenon called
communication accommodation theory.” I know,
that’s just scientific mumbo jumbo, so here’s what that
really means.


When two or more people meet and have a conversation,
they unconsciously adapt each other’s voice tones. That’s
why you never see one person screaming and the other
person using a very calm voice. They would be so out of
rapport that they couldn’t stand it.


You want to be unaffected and maintain the vocal tonality
you want. That’s what a high-status person does. You don’t
want to allow your emotions to impact your vocal tonality,
nor do you want to seek rapport by matching someone
else’s vocal tonality. That’s what a low-status person does.



INTERESTING

You want your vocal tonality to remain unaffected, but
you don’t want it to be boring. The last thing you want is


10 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to sound like monotone Ben Stein in Ferris Bueller’s Day
Off. Instead, you have to switch it up: sometimes you
go bolder, other times you whisper, other times you just
stay the same. It keeps things interesting and makes you
more engaging.


I don’t have the most subscribers on YouTube, but the
company recently told me my videos do have one of the
highest watch rates. People watch my videos from start to
finish more than almost anyone else on all of YouTube. I
attribute a lot of that to my understanding of vocal tonality.


Comedian Russell Brand has talked about vocal tonality.
He’s been onstage thousands of times, including sold-out
shows at Madison Square Garden, and he said changing
up the way you speak is one of the most important things
he’s learned in his career. People are constantly looking
for patterns in the way people speak. Once we decipher
that pattern, we basically become desensitized to it and
begin to tune them out.


When you change your vocal tonality and the speed at
which you speak, or the volume, you’re preventing listen-
ers from finding a pattern. They can’t figure it out, so they
keep listening. They remain engaged in the conversation
with you, instead of tuning you out and looking elsewhere
around the room. Keeping your vocal tonality interesting


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   101
is a surefire way to have deeper, more meaningful con-
versations with friends and family.



BREAKS RAPPORT (OCCASIONALLY)

This one can be tricky. For the most part, you want your
voice to remain neutral and unaffected, as we highlighted
earlier. But there are certain times when a tactic known
as the “status shock trick” can be effective.


You don’t want to use this very often, but it’s a guaranteed
way to break rapport immediately and reinforce your high
status. Here it is: in the middle of a conversation with
someone, just yell loudly for a second. Not in a threatening
way, not in a scary way, but in a fun way.


If I’m talking to someone and want to make sure I have
their attention for a second, I’ll just let out a “Hey!” Again,
not shouting, but louder than your normal volume. It
breaks your own personality and immediately reengages
them. On a philological level, they go from being disen-
gaged to immediately being alert and interested. It’s a
powerful shock trick that works.



COMPARING VOICES

Earlier in this chapter, I asked you to think of someone


102   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
with a high-status voice, but it’s just as important to study
those with low-status voices. With that in mind, this is a
perfect time to revisit Gilbert Gottfried.


Gottfried’s voice is incredibly high-pitched. We all know
that. But if you watch him and notice his eyes and his body
language, it almost looks like he’s trying to break rapport.
Basically, he’s trying to annoy you. I don’t know him per-
sonally, of course, but that’s his shtick. He’s low status.


On the other hand, someone like Brad Pitt consistently
portrays high status. It doesn’t matter what character he’s
playing—Rusty Ryan in Ocean’s Eleven, Achilles in Troy,
or John Smith in Mr. & Mrs. Smith. Watch him in any of
his films, and you’ll notice he has the same vocal traits in
all of them. His vocal tonality is high status throughout.


Oprah Winfrey is another example of someone with a
high-status voice. She is authoritative, she is clear, her
vocal tonality changes, and she occasionally breaks rap-
port. She’s got it down. Lena Dunham, by comparison,
has a low-status voice. It has a whiny, acerbic tone that
isn’t authoritative, doesn’t change tone, and isn’t overly
articulate. Comparing Oprah and Dunham is like com-
paring the sun to a lightbulb. It’s not even close.




                                       H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   103
THE IMPORTANCE OF TIMING

When Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra used to perform
in Las Vegas, people would typically admire Sinatra as
he sang. But when he made jokes, they wouldn’t laugh.
Martin, on the other hand, drew laughs every time he
told a joke. People would even laugh when he just walked
onstage. Martin understood physical humor, and he
understood timing.


One day, Sinatra was fed up. He told Martin before they
went onstage that he wanted to do the funny lines for
once. Martin agreed to switch lines that night, but it didn’t
matter. The audience was still laughing at Martin, who
was supposed to be playing the straight man, not the funny
guy. At one point, Sinatra got so frustrated he broke the
scene onstage and said, “Why the hell is no one laughing
at me right now?” Martin, without missing a beat, shot
back, “Because you’re not funny.” Perfect timing. The
entire audience erupted into laughter. This is also a prime
example of high-status truth, which we’ll explore later on.


A lot of people don’t understand timing, but it’s a crucial
component of a high-status voice. When we meet some-
one who’s polished but authentic, and passionate but
controlled as a speaker, we identify them as high status.
The people who are great at communicating usually rise
to the top of their industry. That’s just the way it is.


10 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
BUILDING YOUR VOICE

Demosthenes is one of the most famous orators in the
history of ancient Greece, but like everyone who has ever
been great at something, he wasn’t born like that. In fact,
he had a speech impediment as a child. He didn’t care: he
wanted to become a great speaker. He dedicated himself
to overcoming his impediment, and that often involved
some unorthodox methods.


At one point, he shaved half of his head, so he’d be afraid
to go out in public. Instead, it forced him to stay inside and
practice speaking all day. He would also practice speaking
with pebbles in his mouth to better train his voice. Don’t
worry—you’re not going to have to do either of those prac-
tices. It’s just another illustration that your voice, like any
muscle, can be trained. Demosthenes went from a boy
with a speech impediment to one of the classical figures
we remember during that period in history, along with
the likes of Caesar, Cicero, and Mark Antony.


Here are a few practices to work on that don’t involve
shaving your head or holding rocks in your mouth.



TAKE DEEP BREATHS

When you start to run low on oxygen in your diaphragm,
your vocal tonality will shut down. It becomes weaker,


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   105
parched, and flimsy. But when you take a full breath of air
and really fill your lungs up, your voice becomes stronger.


What I have a lot of my clients do at my events is come
up onstage and talk for as long as they can without taking
an inhalation. I have everyone start by saying, “I love
being high status because…” and they take it from there.
For those first ten to fifteen seconds, everyone starts off
strong. Eventually, their voices trail off, getting weaker
and weaker until they have to stop to take a breath.


We run them through it again, except this time I tell them
to pause and take a good inhalation as they begin. Slow
down and take a few deep breaths. You notice the dif-
ference immediately. Your voice is strong, authoritative,
and doesn’t trail off.



TURN UP THE VOLUME

No, don’t go around yelling at everyone. Just turn the
volume of your voice up by 20 percent. That’s it. People
who express themselves loudly are typically seen as
higher status. This is something you’ll have to work on,
but remember, your voice is a muscle. It’s all part of
the training.


Here’s how we do it. First, start carrying a book around


10 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
with you. It can be a physical book or an e-book saved on
your phone: it doesn’t matter as long as you have access
to it. Practice reading one page of the book at 20 percent
higher volume than you normally would. Do this three
times a day, once in the morning, once in the afternoon,
and once at night. By the second day, you’ll find yourself
speaking louder. If you want to be ambitious, repeat this
exercise for a full seven days, and then one day per week
after that, to keep the muscle strong.


The second exercise is similar to the first, but instead of
speaking 20 percent louder while reading a book, you’re
going to speak 20 percent louder in every conversation
you have during that day. You’ll notice the difference in
how people respond to you right away. The more you
practice this, the more natural it will become.


If you’re thinking, “Jason, sounds great, but how do I know
what’s 20 percent louder than my usual voice?” Don’t
worry. Think about the volume of your voice on a scale of
1 to 10, with 10 being the loudest. What do you normally
speak at? Most people that answer this question say a 5
or 6. If you think you’re at a 5 usually, bump it up to a 7.


The best thing you can do, regardless of the situation, is
just relax and take a few deep breaths before you start
speaking. If you’re worried about an upcoming situation


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S V O I C E ·   107
that’s going to be stressful, practice the right tonality in
your head. We all self-talk: there’s a voice inside all of our
heads. Just rehearse it mentally first, then out loud a few
times. It will get easier and more natural with practice.


Virtually everything we cover in this book will become
more instinctive as you continue to practice, until you
reach the point where you don’t think about it anymore.
You will just naturally be high status. It will become your
new “default setting,” and all the perks, prizes and ben-
efits that come along with it will be yours as well. And
recognize this: you already know more than most people
on what it means to be a truly high-status person. But in
our next chapter, we are going to cover arguably the most
important honest signal of high status in the game. You
are going to love this one. Keep reading.




10 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                    Chapter Five



HIGH-STATUS EYE CONTACT

Men lie, women lie, shiny shit lies. People lie all the time
with what they say and how they present themselves, but
there’s one part of our bodies that doesn’t allow lies—the
eyes. It is impossible for the eyes to lie about status. Eyes
are the most important honest signal, and it all comes
down to just two things that will convey your status level.
These are things no one has ever talked about or told you,
because they’re a result of my own empirical data from
years and years of research. High-status eye contact comes
down to attention and tension. That’s it.


High-status eye contact can get you just about anything
in this world. On the flip side, low-status eye contact will
ensure you come out on the short end of deals and con-
stantly miss out on things you want. If you understand


                                H I G H - S T A T U S E Y E C O N T A C T ! · ! 109
how to use attention with your eyes, and harness tension
both within yourself and others, you can have the high-
est-status eye contact in the entire world. We’re going to
tackle both of these shortly, but first, a quick story.


I was recently in Las Vegas with my girlfriend and a few
of my buddies. I don’t party as often as I did when I was
younger, but when I do, I fucking party. That’s always true
when we hit up Vegas. We’re out there having a great time,
sharing some drinks at a club, but it was just a precursor
for the main event—Drai’s After Hours. All of us in the
group love house music and Drai’s always plays it.


As the night’s progressing and it’s getting closer to 2:00
a.m.—when Drai’s opens—I asked my buddy John if he
wanted to head over before us and grab some tables. That
way, we wouldn’t have to waste any time waiting in line.
We were in Vegas to party, not stand around waiting. John
was all about it. “I got it, don’t even worry about it.”


It hits 2:00 a.m. and we show up at Drai’s. The line to get
in is massive, but we walk straight to the front because I
saw John waiting with the general manager of the club. I
had met him once before, so I knew his name was Mark,
but inside I’m thinking, “Why the hell is John with the
owner? And why the hell is the owner even here?”



110   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
As I’m wondering what the hell is about to happen, the
owner walks up to me and says, “Jason, we’re so glad to
have you here. Thank you so much for coming. Come
on guys, follow me.” OK, interesting turn. I figured I
was about to get one hell of a story from John once we
got inside.


Drai’s is an incredible place. I highly recommend you
check it out if you can. The nightclub is underground, so
you’ve got to take an elevator down. When the doors open,
you walk right out into the club, a massive room with red
walls and leather furniture and a bass-heavy sound system
that shakes you to your core. It’s sick. Well, normally it is.
That night it was quiet and empty as Mark walked us in.


As we sat down at our table, Mark started explaining the
situation to me. “As John might have told you, Drai’s
is now split into two clubs—the hip-hop room and the
house room. It’s Sunday night, so the house room is closed,
unfortunately. But I talked to John about it and he told
me your preferences, so we decided to open the house
room up for you guys. Your own security guard, your own
waitress, your own DJ. Just you and your group. Is that
OK with you?”


Um, let me think…fuck yes. How cool was that? It turned
into a great night, one of those memorable times we all


                                  H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   111
still talk about it now. So, how did my buddy John make
it happen? Eye contact.


When John got to Drai’s, the bouncer told him about the
house room being closed for the night. “Sorry man, we
only have hip-hop tonight.” Rather than just accept that,
turn tail, and leave, John remembered what I had taught
him about high-status eye contact. Instead of saying any-
thing else to the bouncer, he just looked at him in a very
specific, high-status way. After about five seconds passed,
the bouncer said he’d go talk to the manager.


The manager then came over and told John the same
exact thing. And again, John responded the same way.
He let out a deep exhale, like he was disappointed, and
held the same high-status eye contact with the manager.
Another five seconds went by before the manager said,
“You know what? I might be able to do something. Let
me go talk to the owner.”


A few minutes later, Mark comes over. “What is it you
wanted to do?” he asks. John then explains that his “client”
will be arriving soon with a big group of people and will be
disappointed that the house room is closed. John held the
high-status eye contact one more time, and after a short
conversation with the manager, came back with the plan.



112   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
I love John. He’s a great guy and one of my best friends,
but he’s not extraordinarily handsome, he’s not rich, and
he’s not the best-dressed guy in the world. None of those
traits played a factor in his ability to get a private club at
Drai’s. It was all about eye contact.



ATTENTION

Your eyes communicate to everyone else where your
attention is at that moment. If you walk into a room and
someone is sitting on a couch watching TV, you instantly
know their attention is on the TV screen. As human beings,
we’re hardwired to recognize things that are abundant
and easy to obtain as having less value than things that
are scarce. This logic doesn’t just apply to physical objects.


If your attention is easily had by anyone at any time, are
you more or less valuable? You’re less valuable. If your
attention is harder to get, that makes it more valuable.
The harder your attention is to get, the higher your status.
Think about it. If you’re working on something that’s a
priority on your path to your high-status destiny, and
someone asks you to grab dinner, you don’t just immedi-
ately drop everything and follow them. If you do, you’re
indicating that your destiny isn’t the most important thing
to you. That’s low status.



                                  H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   113
Instead, you remain focused on the task at hand. You
don’t have to ignore the dinner request, but say you need
another ten or twenty minutes. Can you imagine if the
President of the United States was working on a crucial
negotiation with a foreign prime minister, but ended
the meeting as soon as his dinner was ready? Fuck no,
of course not. The President is a high-status person, so
dinner is going to have to wait.



TENSION

Tension has a terrible connotation, doesn’t it? But guess
what? Tension doesn’t have to be a bad thing. What hap-
pens when most people feel tension? All of their other
high-status signals go to shit. They become fidgety, their
posture suffers, their vocal pace and tone gets thrown off.
They’re just trying to end the tension as quickly as possible.


High-status people are able to bask in tension like they’re
kicking back on a warm, sunny day at the beach, watching
the waves drift in and out. That’s how comfortable they
are in high-tension situations. When you can stay relaxed
in the midst of tension, you are signaling to others that
you are a high-status person.


When John made his request to the three different guys
at Drai’s, those were obviously tension-filled moments,


114   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
but he was able to bask in the tension, instead of folding
under it. Unconsciously, those guys were sizing him up
by saying to themselves, “I don’t know who his client is,
but he must be a big deal because he’s so relaxed right
now. He looks like he makes these type of requests all
the time, and he looks like he’s used to hearing ‘yes,’ so
I should probably say ‘yes’ too.”



THE POWER OF EYE CONTACT

John’s story is a great example of the power that high-sta-
tus eye contact has, but there are countless other examples.
High-status people know how to look at the eyes of some-
one and almost entrance them in a powerful, positive,
and uplifting way. One of the all-time best at this was
Frank Sinatra.


Think about how many people throughout history have
had blue eyes. Too many to count, right? Well, there’s only
one “Frankie Blue Eyes,” so that alone says something.
His valet, George Jacobs, wrote, “When he would train
those hypnotic eyes on her or anyone else, there was a
magic moment when that woman was the woman, the
only woman, and that was irresistible to them.”


More examples of this come from Fifty Shades of Grey. It
might not be the greatest book ever written, but shit, it’s


                                H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   115
sold more than 120 million copies. As someone who used
to be a dating coach, I’ve read it a few times to study why
Christian Grey is so alluring to women. Throughout the
book, there is commentary after commentary, quote after
quote, talking only about his eye contact from the perspec-
tive of Ana Steele. For example: “Jose and Christian, they
both want something from me. Jose is easy to deal with,
but Christian? Christian takes a whole different league
of handling of understanding. Part of me wants to run
and hide. What am I going to do? His burning gray eyes
and that intense smoldering stare come into my mind’s
eye and my body tightens at the thought. I gasp. He’s not
even here and I’m turned on.” Boom—all about the eyes.
Here are a few more:


 • “His gaze is unwavering and intense.”
 • “‘I’ve never introduced a woman to my mother
      before. What are you doing to me?’ His eyes burned.
      Their intensity takes my breath away.”
 • “He gazes down at me and his eyes are heated,
      lustful, hypnotic. His gaze is so intense I nod, my
      mouth dry, my heart feeling as if it would jump out
      of my chest.”


You get the point, but this further emphasizes how import-
ant—and powerful—eye contact can be. It’s something
you will have to master for all situations, regardless of


116   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
whether it’s just a friendly conversation with the cashier
at Chipotle or your first time being intimate with a new
partner. Eye contact is crucial in high-stakes situations,
like a potential job interview or important meeting. When
there’s deep, powerful eye contact between two people,
it just screams higher status.



RULES OF HIGH-STATUS EYE CONTACT

High-status eye contact is strong and powerful, but also
relaxed. Someone with high-status eye contact looks
where they want to look. They’re not looking where other
people want them to look. They’re not sheep. It’s like
being an audience member at a late-night talk show, but
not automatically laughing when the producer flashes
the “laugh” sign. If you’re in the middle of a conversation
with a friend, and you’re giving them your attention, you
won’t just abandon it when there’s some commotion off
to the side. As a high-status person, your attention must
go where you want it to go.


Eye contact has to be trained for two distinct purposes—
attention, which is on the outside, and tension, which is on
the inside. There are a few different techniques to do this.




                                 H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   117
80/60 RULE

When you’re talking to someone, you want to be looking
them in the eyes about 80 percent of the time. This isn’t
a hard-and-fast rule. It’s more of a general idea to give
you a frame of reference. When they are speaking to you,
you want to be looking them in the eyes only about 60
percent of the time.


Why is this? Well, when you’re looking them dead in the
eyes, you’re signaling that you’re not only important, but
also confident enough to communicate with them. When
they’re speaking, you’re signaling that your attention
is just a bit harder to come by. All you have to do is pull
back a little bit—remember, when in doubt, lean out—and
glance to the left or right a few times. The other person
will pick up on this and push harder to gain your attention.



COMMUNICATE VISION WITH YOUR EYES

When Steve Jobs would describe the iPod to someone
before it was created, he would maintain eye contact
with them until he arrived a really big, emotional part of
the discussion. At that point, instead of maintaining eye
contact, he would look down at his hands and imagine
he was holding an iPod. He would move his thumb in a
circular motion to show the motion wheel, or swipe his
finger up and down to convey a different motion.


118   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
The other person might have absolutely no fucking idea
what he was talking about, but they couldn’t deny his
passion. He appeared powerful and excited about life—in
other words, high status. Jobs could communicate that
passion through his eyes.



SLOW HEAD TURN

I’ve used this example already, but fuck it, I absolutely
love Robert Downey Jr.’s portrayal of Tony Stark in the
Iron Man and Avengers movies. When he’s down in his lab
working on a new machine, and Pepper Potts asks if she
can talk to him, he doesn’t immediately drop what he’s
doing and look up.


What he’s working on is incredibly important: it’s his
high-status destiny. Instead, he’ll focus for a few seconds
and then start slowly turning his head to deviate some
of his attention away from his project. It’s an extremely
high-status move.



SINGULAR FOCUS EXERCISE

This exercise is specifically for training tension. You’ll
need a few things for this. First, a computer. Any laptop
works, as long as it can play videos. Pick a video, mute
it, and hit play. We only need the visual for this exercise.


                                H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   119
Next, set something taller behind the computer screen
that you can see, such as a flower vase or book.


For thirty seconds, pick a spot on the object behind the
screen and, in a relaxed way, just focus on it as the video
plays. After a few seconds, you’ll notice your focus and
concentration starting to drift. Maybe the video will catch
your attention or something else in the room. When that
starts to happen, calmly recite the following to yourself:
recognize and return.


Recognize that your attention is fading, and return it to
the spot you chose to focus on. Don’t get mad or frustrated
with yourself. Try this a couple times for thirty seconds, and
then eventually build up to ninety seconds and two min-
utes. If you get to the point where you can do this for two
minutes and only have to recognize and return a handful
of times, you’ll be in the top 1 percent in the world in your
ability to focus on something. That ability to stay focused
will keep you relaxed and focused when facing tension.



COLD SHOWER

If you’ve ever taken a cold shower, you know how shitty it
is. I don’t need to take the time to explain it. But in terms
of using external forces to put your body and mind in a
high-tension situation, there aren’t many better methods.


12 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
When you step into the shower and that cold water hits
your skin, it’s a shock to the system. You tense up, your
muscles tighten, and you might squeeze your fists together.
What’s going on internally is that your body is recognizing
that as a high-tension situation.


What I want you to do is take a cold shower, but stay relaxed.
Remember, a high-status person embraces tension. When
that cold water hits you, don’t freak out. Let it run over
you for just twenty seconds. Start small, even though the
first time will feel like eternity. Don’t clench your jaw, and
try to keep your muscles as relaxed as possible.


The next time you do this, increase it to thirty seconds, then
forty-five. Get all the way up to two minutes if you can. Trust
me, if you can stand two minutes of ice-cold water hitting
every inch of your naked body and you remain relaxed,
there is nothing in the world that can throw you off balance.



AM I GOING TO DIE?

I can’t stress this enough: eye contact is the No. 1 honest
signal. It’s crucial to achieving high status. I’ll leave you
with two more things before we close out this chapter.


I get asked a lot of the same questions at my seminars.
This is one I regularly hear: “I’m relaxed and holding eye


                                  H I G H - S TAT U S E Y E C O N TA C T ·   121
contact with a person, but what if the tension just gets
to be too much? What if I can’t take it?” There are a few
options here. First, ask yourself a simple question in your
mind: am I going to die? Of course, the answer is no, right?
Once you remind yourself that you’re not going to die
from looking at someone, it puts things in perspective. It
allows you to hold the eye contact for a few more seconds.


Another tactic to combat tension is a simple thought loop.
If you’re feeling the tension of the moment, and in your
mind, you’re thinking, “I can’t take this, I can’t take this,”
then you’re not going to be able to take it. Change that
thought loop from “I can’t take this” to “I love myself.”
Just repeat that to yourself a few times in that situation,
and pay attention to how quickly the tension gives way to
calmness. It’s amazing how effectively a simple thought
loop helps us find peace of mind.


It’s further proof that you really are the one in control.
You’re attacking your destiny, and you’re in control of your
body language, voice, and eye contact. You are becoming
more and more high status with every new word you read
in this book. This is a great place to be, but there’s still
much more to discover, starting now with your high-sta-
tus walk.




12 2   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                      Chapter Six



        HIGH-STATUS WALK

Not long ago I was driving from my house to a local
hotel for one of my private workshops. It was a beautiful,
late-summer day in California. The sun was shining and
I could feel a nice breeze against my skin with the top of
the car down. It was just a gorgeous day.


The hotel was located in a central area of Orange County
full of corporate-looking buildings. As I sat at a red light at
an intersection, I noticed three guys from the nine-to-five
office crowd waiting to cross the street in front of me. How
did I know they were office drones? Easy—they were each
wearing a wrinkled button-up shirt with a cheap tie and
khakis. Not only that, but they were standing there, taking
bites of their Subway sandwiches. They were rushed,
uncomfortable, and unhappy: they were low status.


                                        H I G H - S T A T U S W A L K ! · ! 123
You could just tell they were trying to eat as quickly as pos-
sible on their walk back to the office. Eventually, they got
the green light to cross the intersection, and at that point
their nervous standing gave way to a rushed, fidgety walk.
At the same time, a strong gust of wind blew through the
intersection, and I watched as pieces of lettuce from all
three sandwiches simultaneously blew away. I immedi-
ately dubbed the hapless trio the “sandwich brigade,” but
it’s not just a California phenomenon: there are people
like this at every street corner in every city.


It was the saddest image I have ever seen in my life. Ever.
The ancestors of those three men used to slay animals,
protect their families, and build shelters, but they couldn’t
even get their clothing straight, find the time to finish a
sandwich, or find a job that makes them comfortable.
What the fuck is going on?


As I made the left turn and continued on my way to the
hotel, the image of those three guys was burned into my
mind. The workshop was for entrepreneurs, so I had
planned to discuss the finer techniques of being a self-
starter. Instead, I spent the first twenty minutes sharing
the same story with the fifty or so people in the workshop.
Some laughed, some nodded their heads, but everyone
agreed it was a sad example. It’s amazing how much is
conveyed through people’s subcommunications.


124   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
THE POWER OF YOUR WALK

There’s a distinct difference between a high-status walk
and a low-status walk. A high-status walk carries a lot
more power with it. There are literally countless examples
of high-status walks throughout history, but one of my
favorite examples is Marlon Brando.


When Mary Tyler Moore was still in the early stages of
her career, she had a series of small roles in movies. She
was involved in a Marlon Brando movie at the peak of his
popularity, when he was arguably the most famous actor
on the planet. She was hanging out on the set one day with
a number of her friends when they all saw Brando for the
first time. He was only walking the short distance from
the stage to his trailer, but it mesmerized Moore and her
entire group. How could he do that without even looking
in their direction? His walk, of course.


Brando didn’t look left or right as he walked to his trailer.
He didn’t say or do anything. He didn’t have to. He just had
a unique, high-status walk. Moore said in that moment
that Brando had the slowest, sexiest walk she had ever
seen. Decades later, she said the image of Brando walking
to his trailer was still the sexiest walk she had ever seen
in her entire life. It was burned into her memory, the
same way the sad image of the “sandwich brigade” is
burned into mine. The lesson here? People will conclude


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   125
a lot about you from the way you walk. Walking is some-
thing we all do, and, like all of the honest signals, it can’t
be faked.


Think of anyone you believe exhibits a high-status walk.
It can be Marlon Brando, Brad Pitt, Daniel Craig, Adriana
Lima, Beyoncé, Kim Kardashian—anyone at all. The most
important thing to remember is every single person you
know with a high-status walk has their own unique style.
There are five traits that are universal to high-status walk,
but everyone has a different personal style. Your high-sta-
tus walk will be exclusive to you.


The first thing you’ll want to do is start observing peo-
ple’s walks. Just by reading this book you’ve already
started to gain awareness about something most people
would never even think about. As you watch other people,
decide whether their walk is high or low status. If it’s high
status, what made you draw that conclusion? Airports
are a phenomenal place to study this, because everyone
is walking. If you take a second to notice how someone
is walking, you’ll be able to pick up on whether they’re
excited or unhappy. Someone that’s about to take a week-
long vacation to Aruba is going to be looking ahead and
walking with a strong posture and purpose. The person
who’s being sent to the middle of nowhere for a shitty
business meeting they have no interest in will have a slow,


12 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
distracted walk. Trust me, next time you’re in an airport,
remember this chapter.



FIVE TRAITS OF HIGH-STATUS WALK

Though everyone has their own unique walk, there are
five traits that are found in every high-status walk. Let’s
break them all down:



TALL AND OPEN

This means exactly what it sounds like—good posture,
shoulders back, eyes looking straight ahead, chin up.
Imagine there’s a string that begins at your lower back,
and comes straight up and attaches to the back of your
neck and crown of your head. The string extends toward
the ceiling, essentially pulling you up.


Imagine what that would look like. That’s what it means
to walk tall and open. Simple.



PURPOSEFUL

A high-status walk knows where it’s going. It has direc-
tion; it has a destination in mind; it has purpose. Again,
a person at the airport who is about to board a flight to
Aruba for vacation is going to have a different walk than


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   127
someone about to board a flight to Pittsburgh for a work
meeting. No offense, Pittsburgh, but people would much
rather go to Aruba.


Think about characters who portray high status in movies
or TV shows. They are almost never shown conversing,
while sitting down doing nothing. They’re always walk-
ing down a hallway because they have somewhere to be.
Their walks are purposeful.


The exact opposite of this is when people get to a bar or
club and decide to “take a lap.” Maybe they don’t know
anyone there, or they don’t know where to go, so they
walk around. It’s completely purposeless. It broadcasts
to everyone else, “Hey, I don’t know anyone here, but I
want to meet someone.” It comes off low status. Don’t do
laps. Have a purpose to your walk.



SMOOTH AND CONTROLLED

Remember how one of the five traits of a high-status voice
is that it remains unaffected by others? Well, the same
is true of a high-status walk. A high-status voice speaks
the way it wants to, and a high-status walk moves at the
pace it wants to.


When I used to live in Marina del Rey, I would walk around


12 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
a lot. I didn’t have a car, but I didn’t need one. Everything
I needed was within walking distance, plus the traffic was
fucking brutal. Nowhere was that more true than Lincoln
Boulevard. It’s one of the more famous streets in Los Ange-
les, where Venice, Santa Monica, and Marina del Rey all
touch each other. The traffic and crowded intersections
were shitty for drivers, but it gave me a perfect training
area to perfect my own high-status walk.


When the walk light would turn green, instead of sprinting
across the crosswalk like the sandwich brigade, I would
take a deep breath, wait a second, and then start walking.
It was purposeful and at my own pace. By the time I was
20 percent across the street, everyone else had already
crossed. I didn’t care. I walked a smooth, controlled pace.
I would only get about 75 percent of the way across the
street before the light turned red, so I’m sure I pissed off
many, many drivers.


I’m not encouraging you to go out and piss off every driver
in your city, but walking across streets at intersections
is a great way to practice a smooth and controlled walk.



CASUALLY SEXY

Add just a teaspoon of sexy to your walk. Add a little
swagger, but don’t go overboard. There’s a fine line


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   129
between sexiness and overexaggeration. Subtlety is sexy.


Imagine there’s a camera on you as you walk, and on the
other side of the camera is every person you find attrac-
tive. They’re all watching you—the way you move, the
way you walk. It’s your big moment. What do you do?
Just add a teaspoon of sexy to your walk. Too much salt
kills the dish, so don’t overdo it. Take your time, keep it
smooth and controlled.



LOOK BEYOND THE CROWD

This one is key. A person with a high-status walk is look-
ing beyond the crowd toward their vision—their destiny.
Their head isn’t on a swivel. They aren’t looking left or
right, and they aren’t taken off their path by every little
distraction. A high-status person is in control of their
attention, because their attention is valuable.


After one of my coaching groups met together, we went
to great restaurant called Meze Greek Fusion. Side note:
this place has the best saganaki I’ve ever had. Anyway,
we’re all there eating, drinking, having a good time. There
was a belly dancer going around table to table trying to
teach people how to belly dance. When she eventually
came over to our table, I was in the middle of a really
focused conversation with my friend. When I’m having


13 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
a conversation with someone, I’m present. I’m not look-
ing around for other distractions or outside stimulation.
Neither of us looked up as she tried, repeatedly, to get
our attention. At one point, she even hit the table to get
us to look up, but we didn’t. We were both peripherally
aware of her, but learning how to belly dance just wasn’t
important. Being present with a good friend of mine was.


If you can walk straight and look straight ahead through
all the bullshit, be excited about where you’re going, walk
tall and open, smooth and controlled, all with a hint of
sexiness, that’s high-status walk at its peak.


I want you to start internalizing your own unique high-sta-
tus walk today. Don’t put this off, and I’ll tell you why.
Remember Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory? The
one with Gene Wilder, not the weird remake with Johnny
Depp. One of the most memorable and classic scenes
from that movie is the first time we see Willy Wonka.
No one has seen him in years, but the five golden-ticket
holders are among the hundreds of people waiting at the
front gate. When he finally comes out to greet them, he’s
using a cane and limping because of a bad leg. A hush
falls over the crowd—that’s not who they were expecting
to see. Suddenly, he drops the cane, does a somersault,
and everyone goes crazy. It’s a fantastic scene.



                                      H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   131
Here’s the thing: one day you could be Willy Wonka.
Not the jovial, joking Wonka, but the broken-down,
cane-wielding Wonka. You only have a limited amount
of time where you’re able to walk the Earth in a genuinely
high-status way. Do not wait.



ENTERING ROOMS

Aristotle famously said the brains of human beings are
teleological, which means that we are goal seeking. Our
brains thrive on goals. Viktor Frankl wrote Man’s Search
for Meaning, which chronicled his time as a concentration
camp inmate at Auschwitz during the Holocaust. It’s an
amazing book that describes how he not only survived,
but made a difference and affected so many people later
in life. He turned an absolutely horrifying experience
into a long-term positive by realizing his purpose. Frankl
would use the experience as a way to teach others that
they can survive anything.


Frankl had given his brain a goal, and when our brains
have goals, we’re much happier. The size of the goal
doesn’t matter. It can be as grand as discovering your
life’s purpose, as Frankl did, or it can be as seemingly
unimportant as entering a room.


If you can say to yourself, “This is why I’m here, and this


13 2   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
is what I’m going to do,” before entering a room, you will
give yourself a quick little goal. It’s teleological, and it’s
better than entering a room with no goal.



PAUSE AT THE DOOR

Most people scurry into rooms like rats. When a rat is
trying to get into or out of a room, it will just dart in and
out. It doesn’t want to be seen. A high-status person isn’t
like that.


A high-status person pauses for a second in the doorway.
They’re entering a new environment, so they want to
take it in. Who are the movers and shakers? Who are the
key players in this room? Who are the high-status people
here? Do I know anyone? A slight pause in the doorway
allows you to read the room.



BREATHE IN THE ROOM

While you pause at the door, take a deep breath, and
breathe the room in. Set your intention as you exhale.
Why are you there? What are you going to do? What do
you hope to accomplish? What kind of person do you want
to be in this room?


Most people enter a room with no direction or purpose.


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   133
They’re just kind of…there. Don’t just be there. Don’t float
around. High-status people know where they are there.



BECOME THE FOCUS

Step 3 is actually more of a benefit than anything. Steps
1 and 2 will only take a total of somewhere between five
and ten seconds, but it’s amazing how quickly you will
become the focus of that room. People will turn to look
at you. You will immediately be recognized as high status.
It’s instant and it’s powerful.



WORKING ON YOUR WALK

OK, so we’ve established the five traits of high-status
walk—tall and open, purposeful, smooth and controlled,
casually sexy, and looking beyond the crowd. Remember
these, review them, and reread this section as often as you
need. You’ll need to keep them in mind for the next steps.


First, identify a high-status walk that you love. Make sure
it’s someone that you can study, whether in movies, TV
shows, or online. You’ve got to be able to consistently
access video footage of them walking. It’s funny. A lot of
times when I work with people on their walk, they’ll say,
“Jason, this isn’t my natural walk.” My follow-up question
is always, “How do you know to walk the way you walk?”


13 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
It stumps everyone, but the answer is simple. Like many
actions and habits, we picked it up as a child and never
changed it. This is now your chance to change your walk
for the better. Make it a good one.


Second, start practicing power walks. Another term for
this is a walk of fame. It’s the opposite of a walk of shame—
leaving in the morning while wearing last night’s clothes,
nursing a hangover from a full night of bad decisions.
There’s a shameful vibe and it’s nearly impossible to have
a high-status walk in that situation. A walk of fame, on
the other hand, is all about high status. Imagine you’ve
been searching for your pot of gold for decades and you’ve
finally found it, or you’re an actor or actress and have
finally landed your first starring role. Picture any simi-
lar scenario where you’ve accomplished a goal in your
high-status destiny. How will your walk look? That’s your
walk of fame. There are three steps to training for this:



REVIEW THE FIVE TRAITS

I can’t stress this enough. Review the section on the five
traits of a high-status walk over and over, until you feel
comfortable. Luckily, they’re written permanently in ink
in this book, so you can review them anytime.




                                       H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   135
WATCH YOUR MODEL

Once you’ve reviewed the traits, go to your computer or
TV, and watch the person you selected earlier as your
model. Watch them for one minute, ideally in a scene
where they’re walking.



PRACTICE, PRACTICE, PRACTICE

You’ve reviewed the five traits and watched your high-sta-
tus walk model in action. Now, practice modeling their
walk for one minute. You can do this outside, in your
apartment, wherever. Do this process three times in a
row. It shouldn’t take longer than ten minutes from start
to finish.


Repeat this formula for a full week. Your brain will not only
become focused on the five specific traits, but it will have
an image for reference from your model. By the end of
the week, your walk will have completely and effortlessly
transformed forever.



PERFECTING YOUR WALK

Before we wrap up this chapter on the high-status walk,
there are a few more quick tips to keep in mind. One thing
I always tell my clients is to be aware of how you walk first
thing in the morning. That first walk of the day sets the


13 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
tone, so when you get out of bed to go to the bathroom,
brush your teeth, or make some coffee, just be aware of
how you walk. Remember the traits, remember what your
high-status walk looks like, and jump right into it.


I’ve found that it’s typically easier to start practicing your
high-status walk in new environments. If you’re in a new
city, building, or place where no one really knows you, it’s
definitely easier than a normal environment, surrounded
by friends and family. All it takes is one person to make a
comment about your new walk to cast some doubt. Don’t
let that shit happen! If someone says something to you,
like, “Hey, you’re walking different,” just look at them
and respond, “Yeah, I feel great, thanks.”


I have my clients practice a simple thought loop when
they’re practicing their high-status walk. When walk-
ing, simply say to yourself, “God, I am spectacular.” Very
simple, right? Walk tall, walk relaxed—God, I am spec-
tacular. It might even make you chuckle a bit, which is
great. You want to be relaxed and light. Trust me, if you
repeat that to yourself a few times, before you know it
you’ll be in motion.


If you ever feel like you’re too jerky in your walk or not
relaxed enough, just take a deep breath and slow it down.
Practice makes perfect, so practice as much as you can.


                                        H I G H - S TAT U S WA L K ·   137
It’s natural to want to get to a point where it doesn’t feel
weird anymore. You will get there, trust me.


If you complete the weeklong, power walk exercise, it will
feel natural by the end of the week. At that point, you won’t
have to think about it anymore. A high-status walk will be
ingrained in your subconscious. Look at it this way: we
walk everywhere, so you might as well get really good at it.


That’s actually true for all twelve of the honest signals,
including the next one—and it’s a big one—state control.
So many people come to me because they recognize that
they are missing opportunity after opportunity in life
because they let their emotions control them, instead of
them controlling their emotions. Make no mistake, emo-
tions make a terrific servant but a tyrannical master. We
must master our emotions instead of letting them master
us, if we are to win our own game of life. And guess what?
It’s easy! I’ll show you right now how simple it is.




13 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                   Chapter Seven



             HIGH-STATUS
            STATE CONTROL

What exactly is state control? As a girl at an event once
asked me, is it being in control of Hawaii, Nevada, Wyo-
ming, or any of the other forty-seven states in America?
Of course not. State is your mood, how you feel in a given
moment. State control is the mastering of your emotions so
that you consistently feel positive, and not down, hopeless,
or stuck. By practicing state control, you will learn how to
remain unaffected by external distractions, so that your
mood is dependent upon only yourself and nothing else.
Not on the weather, the food you ate, or the workload you
have. You don’t allow externalities to impact your state.
Who likes feeling like shit? No one. State control allows you
to take control of your emotions and choose how you feel.


                               H I G H - S T A T U S S T A T E C O N T R O L ! · ! 139
The state you are in most often becomes your default
setting. This makes sense, right? If you’re consistently
putting yourself in a good mood, that will become the state
you go to sleep in at night and wake up in. There are six
specific practices to build your high-status state control,
but before we dive into them, I want to share a personal
story that illustrates my own maturity and understanding
when it comes to state control.


A few years ago, my company was in the middle of its
biggest promotion of the year for all customers world-
wide. We had built up the promotion the entire previous
week by sending out different e-mails and videos and
blog posts. It was a big day, both for the company and for
me personally. The day finally arrived and, of course, the
e-mail server crashed. There was no way for us to send
out the promotion, and worse, no way to let subscribers
know why they weren’t getting it. At that point, I was
still in control of my state, so I started focusing on ways
to work around the problem. If we could move all of the
necessary information over to another server within a
few hours, we could temporarily use that second server
until the main one was up and running again.


I contacted another e-mail service provider to register
an account with them, only to find out their server had
also crashed. OK, what are the chances? But I was still


14 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
in control of my state. I go to a third provider. They had
also crashed. Fourth provider, same story. At that point,
my state took a tumble. I felt like I was out of options and
accepted defeat. It was so bad that, for the first time in
years, I drove to a liquor store, bought a bottle of vodka,
and finished half of the damn thing by 4:00 p.m. I was
brewing. I was angry. I had lost control of my state. We
got everything straightened out two days later, but the
damage was done. It was a shitty experience.


A similar situation happened more recently. Once again,
we had a big promotion that we were gearing up for, but
when I logged into the e-mail service provider, it wasn’t
working. It turned out the provider had actually shut us
down because they didn’t like the content from an e-mail
the previous week. I had mentioned a famous celebrity’s
name in the e-mail, and the service provider flagged it for
spamming. I’m friends with the aforementioned celebrity,
but the provider didn’t take the time to verify that, so
whatever. It’s water under the bridge at this point.


Unlike the first e-mail-server fiasco from a few years
before, I stayed in total control of my state. I hopped on
Facebook and wrote up a short post to my customers
explaining the situation and asking if they’d be so kind
to e-mail the service provider. Within an hour, they got
over 300 e-mails. Team Capital fucking rocks. An hour


                               H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   141
later, my account was turned back on, and I got a direct
call from the provider’s vice president.


Your ability to control your state in the stressful and unex-
pected situations that life will inevitably throw at you is
critically important.



YOU ARE IN CONTROL

Allow me a moment of locker-room talk, if you will. There
was a point in my life where I was the king of taking home
the second-hottest girl in the bar. It’s not exactly a title
that rolls off the tongue, but it described me perfectly. I
had trouble talking to anyone I felt was the most beautiful
girl in a bar or club. I spent a lot of time trying to figure
out why that was, and what was holding me back. Even-
tually, I realized I was attributing so much significance to
these women and giving them so much control over my
emotions that it made me nervous. I wasn’t in control of
my state around them.


One night I was out with my friends, and as I was mapping
the room based on the women there—all guys do this,
whether they admit it or not—I noticed one in particular.
She had long blonde hair and was wearing a florescent
lime green dress. She was just this orb of attractive, shiny
light, and she was one of the most beautiful girls I had


14 2   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
seen in a long time. At one point, I noticed her at the bar,
with her friends off to one side. I decided to go for it.


Most guys in that situation would approach her and imme-
diately start talking to her. But that’s a pattern she’s used
to, and it’s not what I did. I went up to the bar, right next
to her, but I kept my eyes forward. Eventually, she said
something like, “The bartender’s not giving us any atten-
tion over here.”


I looked at her and replied, “Yeah, you know, you’re right.
In fact, why don’t you tell me what kind of drink you want
to buy me?”


Her expression evolved from surprised anger to a curious
smirk, like she was thinking, “Who is this guy?”


She stared me down for a second, and on the inside, I was
nervous as shit. But on the outside, I was mindful of my
state control. Whether or not it was going to work, it was
still a great opportunity to practice my ability to hold my
state and be the sole determinant of how I was going to
feel. After a few seconds, she answered.


“Is that your pickup line?”


Shit, that’s the heavy artillery. If a girl wants to shoot a guy


                                H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   143
down, she’ll usually drop the “I appreciate you coming
over to talk, but I’m not interested” or “I have a boyfriend.”
This was clearly a test. I looked back at her and held my
smirk. If she let two seconds pass, I let three seconds pass.


“Yes, and I would like a shot of Patrón. Thank you,” I finally
said. Then I turned and started talking to someone on my
left. Not a minute later, I felt a tap on my shoulder. It was
her, and she was holding drinks for both of us. We took the
shots and spent the rest of the night getting to know each
other. That was a major moment of awakening for me. She
later told me the thing that attracted her to me most was
that I didn’t flinch. I didn’t back down. I was a strong male
in a world full of weak males, and she wasn’t used to that.



LIES ABOUT YOUR STATE

People typically allow externalities—things that are out
of their control—to dictate their state. It’s like a profes-
sional athlete relying on cheers and praise from fans to
affect their state in a positive way. That sounds great in
the moment, but eventually that athlete will become a
victim of their externalities. The minute those fans turn
on them, what happens? The player can lose focus, their
confidence can suffer, and they can even feel anger toward
the fans. In that situation, they have no control over their
own state. The fans do.


14 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Fans should never determine how a player feels about
themselves. Likewise, external factors should not affect
your mood. You should be the sole determinant. Know-
ing this, why is it that most people allow externalities to
dictate their state? We’ve all been fed a few different lies
when it comes to our state.



LIE NO. 1: YOU’RE ALONG FOR THE RIDE

There’s this idea that permeates our society that how you
feel in a given moment is, quite simply, out of your control.
You might feel happy or sad or angry, but it’s because other
things have caused those states. It’s complete bullshit.


To prove how ridiculous this logic is, I like to utilize a
simple technique at many of my seminars. I’ll ask every-
one in attendance to write down how they feel on a scale
of 1 to 10. Then I have them stand up, put their hands over
their head, smile and jump up and down for thirty seconds,
all while shouting, “I love myself, I love the world!” Over
and over. “I love myself, I love the world!”


After thirty seconds, they sit back down and again, on a
scale of 1 to 10, rate how they’re feeling. Without a doubt,
if they were feeling like a 4 before, they feel like an 8 after
those thirty seconds. It sounds silly, but it works. How
you feel is entirely within your control, and this simple


                                H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   145
exercise shows you have the power to affect your state
whenever you want, simply by using your body.


We all have physical patterns for our behaviors. We asso-
ciate certain tonalities, movements, and stances with
specific emotions. Cloé Madanes, a family therapist with
decades of experience, has explained this further in her
work. When someone comes to her and says they’re
feeling sad, she understands the person isn’t actually
sad. They’re just doing sad. I want my clients to train
their bodies to constantly do happy, not sad. It’s really
that simple.


Steve Jobs was famous for his thinking walks. He almost
never held meetings with another person while sitting
down in a room, but instead by walking side by side
with them. He wasn’t the only notable person to do this
throughout history. Charles Darwin, Albert Einstein,
Charles Dickens, Beethoven—they were all famous for
their thinking walks. They all used walking as a way to
enter a deep reflection state, which is a state where the
outside world almost fades away. You can’t see it or hear
it. You’re so deep in thought that it becomes the only place
you’re able to connect complex ideas in a way that’s both
simple and powerful.


Something as simple as taking a walk can help you better


14 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
control your own state. It’s in your control. You’re not a
child anymore. How you feel is up to you.



LIE NO. 2: YOU’RE BORN WITH IT (OR NOT)

Some people are just born to be positive, and others are
not. You’ve probably heard that at some point in your life,
right? Well, guess what? It’s total shenanigans.


Like all of the honest signals of status we’re highlighting
in this book, state control is a muscle. Think about it this
way: why does LeBron James go to preseason training
camp? He’s a six-foot-eight, 250-pound physical spec-
imen with the speed of a point guard and the jumping
ability of a dunk champion. He’s the best damn player
in the world. Why should he even bother with training
camp? Simple—if he’s not practicing day in, day out, like
he does during the season, he’s going to be out of shape.
The endurance needed to play professional basketball is
a muscle, and it must be trained. That’s why a player as
naturally gifted as LeBron needs training camp.


People are born with inherent tendencies—a tendency
toward introversion, or a tendency toward risk-seeking.
But these are just tendencies, and tendencies don’t equal
destiny. No one is born unhappy. They’re just out of prac-
tice. Everyone has to train their muscles to get better,


                              H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   147
whether they’re a marathoner, a cyclist, or a basketball
player. Shit, I’m a perfect example of this.


When I held my very first seminar years ago, it was just
four guys in a tiny coworking space I rented in Santa
Monica. It started at 9:00 a.m., and by 11:00 a.m., I was
absolutely drained. My brain begged me to stop, and I
felt physically tired. I remember thinking, “How the hell
am I going to teach six more hours today and eight more
hours tomorrow?” I made it work, because I’m a champion,
but now I go twelve hours straight with no issues at my
seminars and workshops. It’s a muscle that I’ve trained
over the years.



LIE NO. 3: EVERYTHING THAT MAKES

YOU FEEL GOOD IS GOOD

This is something that’s incredibly pervasive in our culture.
People tell other people all the time, “Listen, if it feels
good to you, you should do it.” That’s such a dangerous
way of thinking. The truth is not all things that make you
feel good are actually good for you.


There are two schools of thought to this—hedonic and
eudaimonic. Hedonic, which comes from hedonism, is
the idea that everything is random and we can’t make
sense of life, so we might as well enjoy all of the pleasures


14 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
we can. Drugs, alcohol, sex—YOLO, right? You only live
once, so live it up.


Eudaimonia, on the other hand, is where people derive a
sense of good feeling and emotion from a deeper sense
of purpose and meaning in their lives. This is someone
who’s doing great things not only for themselves, but also
the people they care about. This ties back into high-status
destiny, as a person with a eudaimonic approach dedicates
their life to something they feel is truly making the world
a better place.


We all know people that fall into one of these two cat-
egories, and they both generally appear happy. But is
one better than the other? A recent study was conducted
to look at the cellular level, and if you want to avoid ill-
nesses and live forever, the results will stun you. The study
found that people with eudaimonic lifestyles had favor-
able gene expression profiles. In plainer terms, it showed
that eudaimonic lifestyles decreased inflammation and
strengthened the immune system.


Hedonic people, on the other hand, had the exact opposite
reaction. They had an adverse expression profile involving
high inflammation with low antiviral and antibody gene
expression. It’s fascinating stuff, because everyone studied
felt good in the moment. But on a deeper, cellular level,


                               H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   149
the person with a eudaimonic lifestyle is significantly
healthier and, in all likelihood, will live longer.



REACTIVE VERSUS NONREACTIVE

Our lives are full of people, environments, and circum-
stances. It’s crucial to remember that all of those things
are out of our control. People react in one of two ways to
these external factors—reactive and nonreactive.


A reactive response allows your state to be completely
affected by other people, circumstances, or your environ-
ment. A nonreactive response is when your state is less and
less affected by those outside factors. Being nonreactive,
in the words of Robert Louis Stevenson, is when “you are
free from the domination of outward conditions.” What
a perfect definition.


When you become nonreactive, you’re able to be a more
rational human being. People affected by other circum-
stances let their emotions get the better of them and stop
thinking clearly. High-status people are always in control
of their state.


One of my all-time favorite examples of nonreactive state
control dates back to 1943. A lot of people don’t know this
about John F. Kennedy, but before he became a senator


150   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
   F AST AC T I O N E X E R C I S E : H I G H -S TAT US H A BIT
A space shuttle uses two large rocket boosters to provide the fuel and
thrust for liftoff during the first two minutes of launch. Those boosters
constitute about 60 percent of the rocket’s weight, as they carry 2.5
million pounds of fuel. During the next eight to ten minutes, the space
shuttle’s extra fuel tank burns through more than 540,000 of gallons
of liquid fuel, providing enough speed and velocity to break the Earth’s
gravity and atmosphere and send the shuttle hurtling into space.

Approximately 90 percent of the fuel is used in the first few minutes.
Once it’s in the frictionless environment of outer space, the shuttle
requires very little fuel for propulsion to maintain its course. Your habits
are incredibly similar: starting a new habit requires the majority of your
energy. Just being aware of this is going to help you create new habits. As
I always tell my clients, first you form your habits, and then they form you.

Most habits take about thirty days to take hold, according to research,
but that can be deceptive. Like anything, the more you practice it, the
quicker you will pick it up. Your habits are no different. If you only prac-
tice a new habit once a day, then it will take longer than thirty days. If
you practice multiple times per day, it could take less than thirty days.

On average, we use the thirty-day window as a typical barometer, and we
break that up into three phases. Days 1 to 10 are the resisting-mediocrity
phase, during which your old, mediocre habits are going to be pulling
you down. You’ve got to put in the effort to resist them. Days 11 to 20
are the defying-the-old phase, in which you start to build momentum
toward the new habit. It’s still not easy yet, but it’s easier than the first
ten days. Days 21 to 30 are the adaptation phase, which is the point
where you begin to float through space like the space shuttle. You still
need to focus and avoid slipups, but once you get past day 30, it’s
going to become a habit for you.

Research also shows that reinforcement through awards at certain
junctures along the habit-formation path during those thirty days can
actually accelerate change and make it more permanent. Let’s talk
about how to do that:

STEP 1
What’s something that would be a fun and healthy reward for you? I
want you list ten options. It can be anything you enjoy doing: playing
basketball, painting, taking a day trip with friends, eating a favorite
dessert, getting a massage. Literally anything that you enjoy.




                                        H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   151
  STEP 2
  Create a reinforcement schedule for yourself before the start of the
  habit-formation process. On day 1, give yourself a reward. On day 3, the
  same. Continue to reward yourself on days 6, 10, 15, 21, and 28. Small
  rewards will ensure you stay on the successful habit-formation path.

  STEP 3
  Schedule a jackpot reward for day 35. Make this special reward three
  to five times bigger than the other ones. If you’ve been consistent for
  thirty-five straight days of self-correction and status practice, not only
  will you be the highest-status version of yourself that you’ve ever been,
  but you’ll get to enjoy a massive jackpot bonus.

  BONUS
  This last step, called “taking away,” isn’t necessary for everyone, because
  it’s a little hard core, but if you’re feeling adventurous, give it a shot. On
  top of setting a jackpot reward for yourself at the end, you’re going to
  set a consequence if you don’t get there. Set something that can be
  taken away from you.

  One of my personal favorites for this is donating $100 to a charity you
  wouldn’t normally support. It’s taking something away from you, but
  it’s still helping others.




and eventually President of the United States, he was in
the U.S. Navy. While at sea, his ship was sunk by a Japanese
ship and he ended up stranded on an island with the rest
of his crew. They had no water or food and were sitting
ducks just waiting on an island. If the Japanese found them
first, they would have ended up as POWs. Some of the
remaining ten crew members lost their ability to control
their state. They wanted to give up, but JFK wasn’t like that.
He stayed cool, calm, and collected. He stayed nonreactive.


JFK led the men to another small island a few miles’
swim away, all while pulling an injured crewman despite


152   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Kennedy’s own back injury. Later on in life, one of his
good friends said about JFK, “No set of circumstances can
lick a boy like Jack.” JFK himself later said he envisioned
the experience as a story he could one day tell others to
inspire them. How awesome is that? JFK never confused
the page for the book. He believed that experience, no
matter how dire it seemed, was only going to be a single
page in the book of his life filled with dozens of chapters.


We can all learn from JFK. The story at the end of your life
is going to be one hell of a book if you simply give yourself
the gift of fighting through and overcoming major chal-
lenges. Think about it: no one wants to read a book about
someone’s life where they got up every day, went to the
same job, came home, and went to bed. That’s boring as
fuck. It’s the crazy, unexpected challenges and your ability
to control your state while you fight through them that will
make the story of your life that much more interesting.



HIGH-STATUS STATE CONTROL PRACTICES

There are six different practices that will help you master
your state control: interpretation awareness, health and
nutrition, physical anchoring, thought loops, physical chal-
lenges, and meditation. Let’s tackle them, one-by-one:




                               H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   153
INTERPRETATION AWARENESS

Have you ever heard the story of the founding of the city
of Alexandria in Egypt? No? Well, allow me enlighten you.
Alexander the Great was well on his way to taking over
the entire world when he arrived in Egypt in 332 BC. At
that point, Egypt was like the center of the universe, and
he wanted to build a big, booming, bustling city there—
named after him, of course.


He sought an ideal area with access to the ocean for this
city. After searching the surrounding areas, he finally
found a perfect spot to build. He hadn’t expected to find
something so quickly, so all of the people in his retinue
who were considered builders weren’t exactly prepared
with final blueprints. He didn’t care. I mean, shit, he’s
Alexander the Great. He took action immediately, without
hesitation. One of his soldiers recommended outlining the
city with the excess grain they had in their stores. Great
idea, right? Alexander thought so, too. They spent the rest
of the day laying out grain in the shape of their future city.


The following morning, Alexander steps outside to look
upon their work, and almost all of the grain is gone. It just
vanished overnight. What happened? Well, they forgot
there were things called birds that fly around in the sky
and love to eat grain. Back then, everyone was superstitious,
including Alexander. This was taken has a terrible omen.


154   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Alexander asked his sages to interpret the meaning of the
message. Their response might surprise you. Instead of
feeding his fear and suggesting he abandon his plans for
Alexandria, the sages said the city would be so successful
and produce so much food that even the birds wouldn’t
go hungry. People would flock to it like birds, they said.
Alexander, buoyed by this interpretation, saw the building
of Alexandria to its end, and it stood as an epicenter of
the world for hundreds of years.


This is an example of interpretation awareness. Things
happen, but they don’t mean anything to us. They don’t
have any effect on our emotional state or our mood until
we decide what meaning we’re going to give them. You’re
the one who has control over how you interpret a situation.
You should always interpret things in a positive way, and
there’s an easy trick to doing so. Ask yourself a question:
when something happens, remember that you don’t have
to accept the meaning that 99 percent of other people
would derive from it. Instead, ask yourself, “I know this
doesn’t look good, but if I wanted this to mean something
good, what could it mean?” Or, “How would someone
like Alexander the Great or Oprah Winfrey interpret this?”



HEALTH AND NUTRITION

It’s going to be really hard for someone who is tossing


                              H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   155
down fast food and processed food all day long to main-
tain a good, positive, resourceful state all the time. Let’s
be honest: a Big Mac a day keeps the millions away.


Health and nutrition are important to your state control.
These four practices will help you maintain a more pos-
itive state.


 • Sweat every day: You don’t have to do three hours
      of yoga or Pilates every day, nor do you have to look
      like a ripped Instagram model. It could be lifting
      weights, doing a workout at home, shooting some
      hoops, or running with your dog. Just do something
      that makes you break a real sweat every day.
 • Eat real food: If it comes from a box or a bag, don’t
      eat it. If it comes wrapped in paper, like a McDon-
      ald’s cheeseburger, don’t eat it. Stick to the real
      foods—fruits, vegetables, nuts, and meat.
 • Eat the rainbow: This piggybacks on the last bullet
      point, but you want to make sure you’re not just
      eating greens or red meats. Eat apples, mangoes,
      bananas, strawberries, raspberries. Different colors
      usually indicate different kinds of vitamins and
      minerals, so eat as many colors as possible.
 • Fast: Fast either for twenty-four hours one day a
      week, or follow the daily 16:8 plan, which entails
      fasting for sixteen hours and consuming all of your


156   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
   caloric intake during an eight-hour window. Fast-
   ing accelerates our fat-burning systems and is a
   great reset for our metabolism. This allows cellular
   cleansing to happen, which is crucial for our bodies
   to repair damaged cells. When you’re constantly
   eating food, your body diverts energy from cellular
   cleansing to digestion. And when we give our body
   time for this cellular cleanse, the body can rid itself
   of damaged or malfunctioning parts of cells. This
   includes damaged mitochondria, which can lead
   to accelerated cellular damage and aging, as well
   as chronic diseases.



PHYSICAL ANCHORING

When I have the people at my seminars jump up and down
while shouting, “I love my life, I love the world,” I’m not
doing it to make for good TV. I’m doing it because it’s
literally rewiring their brains for more happiness, more
resourcefulness, and more passion. When they do that,
good emotions are literally being created inside their
bodies. By mixing this with speaking out loud, we create
a physical anchor. Later on, when they’re back home and
want to feel good, they can just reenact the same move,
and the positive emotions will erupt inside of them again.
It’s a remarkable tool for any high-status human being.



                              H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   157
Any time you feel your state going down, or you’re starting
to feel fatigued, or something happens and it’s affecting
you, I want you to do something unique. Do something
big and physical. Jumping up and down and screaming,
“I love myself, I love the world,” is a great option. Just do
something that gets your entire body moving, and do it
for between ten and thirty seconds. It’s a reset for your
state, and you’ll notice it immediately.



THOUGHT LOOPS

We’ve highlighted some thought loops in previous chap-
ters, and many of them apply now. With eye contact, for
instance, I suggested the perspective reset thought loop
of “Am I going to die?” Simply saying that to yourself in
the moment can help alleviate any anxiety.


There are a million different thought loops at your disposal,
but my favorite is also one of the simplest. Just tell yourself,
“I love myself.” Repeat it over and over a few times. It will
do amazing things for your state.


You can come up with your own thought loops, too, as long
as they are positive statements that are easy to repeat. It
takes the focus off anything negative. Some other exam-
ples include “I love the world,” “The world is great,” and “I
deserve the best the world has to offer.” If you’re preparing


158   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
for a job interview, something like “I’m the best candidate
by far and you know it” would work well.


Thought loops should be personal and unique to you,
incorporating words and adjectives that vibe with the
kind of person you are. Just make sure they are positive
and easy to repeat.



PHYSICAL CHALLENGES

This practice involves putting yourself through things
that are physically difficult, while keeping your body
relaxed and calm. This recalls the cold shower exercise
from earlier in this book. If you can calmly withstand cold
water soaking your body for ten, twenty, thirty seconds,
or longer, then there is nothing the world can throw at
you that will get you off balance.


Other effective physical challenges include isometric
deep lunges, which are standard lunges that you hold in
place for as long as possible, and wall sits, the old middle
school favorite where you hold a sitting motion with your
back against a wall for as long as possible.


These exercises create tension in the body. That’s why
people shake, curse, or even scream if they hold these
positions long enough. What state control does is raise


                              H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   159
threshold for the amount of tension you can withstand
without needing to release it. High-status people not only
handle tension but bask in it.


If you can hold a deep lunge or wall sit for two or three
minutes, all while staying relaxed, you’ll be able to access
state control through physical challenges.



MEDITATION

Never go a day without meditation. It’s that important.
You don’t have to sit cross-legged and repeat “om, om”
over and over. You don’t need to find a hidden cave in Asia.
Not all meditation is a cliché. You can meditate using an
app on your phone. You can take a long walk by yourself,
which is a moving meditation. Prayer is another form
of meditation.


The form doesn’t matter as long as you’re doing something
every day to meditate. Start small, just for a few minutes
each day. Again, this is a muscle you will have to train.


Meditation teaches you to remain calm and grounded in
the middle of a storm. It also builds patience, which is
important for high-status state control.




16 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
WHAT-IFS

These are some of the common questions I get about state
control. Let’s address them one by one:



WHAT IF I’M IN A TOUGH SPOT?

It happens to the best of us. You just find yourself stuck in
a rut and nothing can get you out of it. It’s important to
remember that what you resist, persists. If you continue
to tell yourself, “I can’t get out of this funk,” then you’re
essentially commanding your body to stay in the funk.


What you want to do is change that thought loop in your
mind to something positive. Instead of saying, “I can’t get
out of this funk,” simply say, “I haven’t found the way out
of this funk yet.” Don’t ignore the funk. Once you accept
it, it will begin to dissipate.



WHAT IF I’M TOO SERIOUS?

Once you accept the funk you find yourself in, I want you
to go to a mirror and look at yourself. Say out loud what’s
on your mind. “I feel awful right now.” “I feel like shit
right now.” “I will never be successful.” It doesn’t matter
what it is, just say what you’re thinking out loud.


Repeat it over and over while getting progressively louder.


                                  H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   161
Make sure you include the words right now. It’ll return
perspective to your brain and emotions. Eventually you’ll
be screaming, “I will never be successful!” Guess what
will happen? You’ll start laughing. How can you not? It
sounds absurd to shout “I will never be successful” over
and over. Your concern will dissipate almost immediately.



HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE?

High-status state control is a muscle, and like any muscle,
it has to be trained repeatedly. You wouldn’t go to the gym
once and expect to become ripped, right? But you will be
surprised how quickly you can gain better control of your
state through the practices we highlighted earlier.


I’d say about 90 percent of my clients tell me that within
two weeks of practice, they wake up in a positive, excited
mood. It might not be perfect twenty-four hours a day,
and that’s OK. It’s a process. The more you work on it,
the better it becomes.


You will be able to develop your state control faster than
you could lose forty pounds of body weight or build up
massive biceps, but here’s the key: that change has to
start now.




16 2   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
WHAT TO DO NEXT

We’ve covered what state control is, how crucial it is to
your high-status future, and how the six practices will help
you develop it. Before we move on to the next chapter on
high-status carefreeness, there are three goals I want you
to accomplish in the next week.


 • Set a health and nutrition schedule: Are you eating
   in the best way possible for your state? If not, write
   out a plan for the next week that you can follow.
   Fast for twenty-four hours one day—or follow the
   16:8 plan, if you prefer that—and eat the rainbow.
 • Begin physical anchoring: Start slowly with this. In
   the next week, when you don’t feel great, try one
   of the physical anchoring exercises we highlighted
   earlier. Since you’re just starting out with this, I’d
   recommend doing it somewhere private. Try it two
   or three times a day and see it if works for you, as
   it has for more than one million people worldwide
   already.
 • Begin meditating: If you’ve never meditated before,
   start out with three minutes per day for the next
   seven days. It can be sitting down, walking, or
   prayer, but just make sure it’s three minutes.


If you begin with these three goals in the next week,
you’ll notice your state improving on a daily basis. As you


                              H I G H - S TAT U S S TAT E C O N T R O L ·   163
continue to get more comfortable with all these practices,
your state control will skyrocket.


When you’re in a great state, it not only signals high status
to others, but you’ll find your decision-making becomes
sharper, because you’re so much more relaxed, positive,
and resourceful. You’ll be making decisions from a place
of power and abundance, instead of fear and scarcity,
like so many people do. You will also exude an aura of
carefreeness, which is the seventh signal of high status.
Carefreeness is an integral aspect of high status, one that
almost no one teaches or talks about, and it’s crucial to
developing the magnetic, charismatic personality that
attracts others naturally. You want that, don’t you? Of
course, you do. Let me show you how to get it.




16 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                   Chapter Eight



             HIGH-STATUS
            CAREFREENESS

Most of the people we meet in life can be divided into two
different categories—carefree and worry-prone. There
isn’t usually much of an in-between area. The people we
meet that are carefree seem to be breezing through life
with a merry indifference. They’re relaxed, they have
good vibes, and they tend to just go with the flow of life.
Worry-prone people are the exact opposite. It’s almost
as if carefree people have figured out a magic formula to
life that worry-prone people haven’t.


When we meet a carefree person who’s giving off great
vibes, we want to spend more time around them. They
are naturally attractive in that regard. A common


                              H I G H - S T A T U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ! · ! 165
misconception about being high status is that you must
be ultra-goal-oriented, with no down time to relax. That
couldn’t be farther from the truth. High-status people,
whether they are goal-oriented or not, have a sense of
carefreeness about them.


I’ve been starting most of these chapters off with a story,
but I’m going to throw a curveball at you and open with
an exercise. Don’t worry, it’s an easy one called the circles
of concern and influence. Take a piece of paper and draw
a big circle, then draw another smaller circle inside it.




16 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
In the space between the two circles, I want you to write
down everything that’s on your mind. It doesn’t matter
if it’s important or minor, happening tomorrow or five
years from now. Just take three minutes to do a brain
dump. After three minutes, go through everything you
wrote down and put a star next to all the things that are
directly within your control. For most people, about 40
to 50 percent of the things they listed will be within their
control. What did your results look like?


Take all the things you starred and rewrite them inside
the smaller inner circle. That is your circle of influence.
When people who have mastered high-status carefree-
ness do this exercise, typically about 80 percent of their
thoughts are directly within their control. If only about
half of your thoughts are in your circle of influence right
now, don’t worry: that number will grow as you develop
your high-status carefreeness.


But what about the thoughts on the paper you didn’t star?
Those are things taking up your mental energy, time, focus,
attention, and concentration, but you will never be able to
influence or change them. Those are the things you have
absolutely no control over. They form the circle of concern.


Carefree people do not have zero concerns. That’s a
misconception. They just have a much bigger circle of


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   167
influence than circle of concern. People who are carefree
are keenly aware and highly focused on the things they
can control. This makes sense, right? So much stress and
anxiety in our lives comes from shit that is completely
out of our control.



THE POWER OF CAREFREENESS

OK, now it’s story time, and it’s going to be another Steve
Jobs tale. If you couldn’t already tell, Jobs was pretty damn
high status. Jobs was at a dinner party in 1987 with King
Juan Carlos I of Spain. Ross Perot—yup, the same busi-
nessman who twice ran for President in the 1990s—was
a key investor in Jobs’ company NeXT, so he introduced
him to the Spanish king. Not long after being introduced,
Jobs and Juan Carlos disappeared for like twenty minutes.
Perot looked for them but couldn’t find them.


Eventually, he spotted them together at the center of
the main dining table, carrying on a relaxed, jovial con-
versation. After it ended, he asked Jobs what the two
had just talked about. “I have no idea,” he said, “but
I just sold him a computer!” They both started crack-
ing up. “You sold the king of Spain a computer?” Perot
repeated. “Yeah, he doesn’t have one. Can you believe
it?” Jobs replied.



16 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Steve Jobs was not intimidated by royalty. He was care-
free. High-status people are excited about where they’re
going and what they’re doing in life, so their focus stays
on their behavior, not the outcome of a situation. Jobs
wasn’t worried about impressing the king. He was focused
on having a great conversation, practicing his sales skills,
and enjoying the fun of just going for it. If the king had
said no, or ended their conversation early, Jobs wasn’t
going to judge himself by that outcome. Being carefree
means you don’t focus on the outcome, but rather on
your own actions. Our own actions are entirely within
our circle of influence, while most outcomes are within
our circle of concern.


Legendary college basketball coach John Wooden believed
that success was peace of mind resulting from self-satis-
faction and knowing you put forth your best effort. It’s a bit
of a tongue twister, but basically he believed success was
measured by the effort and focus of his players in games,
not the final score. That’s a powerful—and rare—way
of thinking. Most people fall prey to something called
evaluation bias, which is the tendency to allow others’
evaluations to hold more weight than your own. It doesn’t
matter whether those evaluations are good or bad, right
or wrong, positive or negative. If you continuously rely
on others’ assessments, you become dependent on them.
That always leads to negative consequences.


                                H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S · How many celebrities have we seen over the years that
were driven to harmful behavior because of the constant
evaluations from fans and critics? Heath Ledger, Marilyn
Monroe, Whitney Houston, Billy Mays, Amy Winehouse—
the list just goes on and on. These were all people who
appeared successful on the outside but struggled inter-
nally, because they placed more stock in other people’s
evaluations than their own.



BE YOUR OWN COACH

External recognition tastes good in the mouth but bitter
in the belly. What I mean by that is, receiving a positive
evaluation will feel good in the moment, but as more time
passes, it will feel bitter as you constantly put yourself
under stress to replicate that feeling.


The cure to this is simple: start drinking from your own
sources. What truly makes a person centered is the ability
to absorb and rely on evaluations not from others, but
from themselves. When you constantly absorb evaluations
from the outside world, your path is no longer your own.
It becomes everyone else’s path.


If you find yourself relying on the evaluations of other
people in your life, you must start listening to the coach
who knows you best. That coach is you. You’re going to


170   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
evaluate yourself wholly on your own behaviors, not out-
comes. That will allow you to center your life and give
you peace of mind.


To use another sports metaphor, when playing tennis,
you’re taught to hold the racket handle with a light grip.
If you squeeze it too hard, you’ll develop a blister and,
trust me, that shit hurts. I was recently at the Camelback
Resort in Scottsdale, Arizona, and decided to take a tennis
lesson. I hadn’t played in years, so I forgot how to hold
the racket. I had a blister the size of a jelly bean for the
next three days. You’ve got to live life with a light grip.
Once you do that, you’ll become more carefree, and when
you become carefree, you’ll be more naturally alluring
to others. You’ll enjoy life and live each day moment to
moment. You’ll have the freedom to be playful, to express
yourself fully, to negotiate better, to meet more people, to
hear the word yes more often, and to achieve your goals
faster and with more enjoyment. Honestly, what the fuck
could be better than that?



BEING PURSUED VERSUS BEING A PURSUER

There is power that comes from being the one who is pur-
sued by others, as opposed to being the one who pursues.
Human beings are hardwired to pursue that which retreats
from us. Knowing that, it makes sense that high-status


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   17 1
people are the ones being pursued by others, and not the
other way around.


There is a fine line here though. It has to be natural. You
can’t retreat on purpose to get the result of someone pur-
suing you, because that’s not carefree. That’s becoming
dependent on an outcome that is out of your control. In
that scenario, you’ve stopped judging yourself on your own
behavior and started grading yourself based on outcomes.
That is not the way of a high-status, carefree person.


Carefree people appear to retreat naturally for two rea-
sons. First, they don’t need anyone else’s approval, and
second, their high-status destiny keeps them constantly
in motion, on their path. They are not retreating from
others on purpose, but instead are continuously moving
forward on their path.


Trust me, you will stand out even more in this digital,
social media-obsessed world we live in today. With cell
phones and Instagram and Facebook and all that other shit,
people have literally trained themselves to be approval
rats, just constantly chasing the next online like or com-
ment. People will even post something online and, if they
aren’t pleased with the amount of likes or comments it
gets within that first hour, they’ll delete it. All they’re
doing is training themselves to be completely reliant on


172   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
other people to feel good. Since this is now, sadly, becom-
ing the norm, if you become one of the rare few who are
truly carefree, you’re going to have all the approval rats
chasing you. Whether you want that to happen or not…
well, that’s up to you. But it’s going to happen because
carefree people are pursued by others.



THE KING OF COOL

Just like Steve Jobs, I have a deep, deep appreciation and
admiration for Dean Martin. He is just an amazing exam-
ple of someone who was carefree and seemed to breeze
along through life. I mean, come on, the guy was known
as the “King of Cool.” If that doesn’t scream carefree,
what does? Frank Sinatra was the most famous member of
the Rat Pack, but the women loved—and pursued—Dean
Martin more than anyone.


One thing Martin loved even more than the ladies was
playing golf. While all the other Rat Packers would stay
out until 4:00 a.m. partying, Martin would make sure he
was in bed by midnight so he could get up for his morning
tee times. One time he was out at a course in Las Vegas
and he heard a kid from the UCLA golf team was also
there. One thing led to another, and Martin agreed to play
against the kid for $20,000. That was a lot of money back
then. Shit, it’s still a lot of money. They ended up playing


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   173
and the kid just destroyed Martin. Seriously, he beat him
on every hole and won all $20,000.


At the end of the round, the kid started apologizing.
Martin, exhibiting the essence of carefreeness, simply
replied, “Don’t worry about it, kid. Remember, I can make
it back faster than you can win it.” Without question, that
kid walked away thinking Dean Martin was one of the
coolest people walking the planet.


Still not convinced Dean Martin is the epitome of care-
freeness? I’ve got another quick story about the King of
Cool that should change your mind. By the late 1960s, The
Dean Martin Show was one of the most popular TV shows
in America, but Martin was getting tired of the monotony
involved with a weekly variety show. One night at dinner,
he told his wife, “I’m just going to ask them for something
crazy, like $30 million. That’ll put a stop to this.”


Martin met with the TV execs the following weekend, but
instead of them canceling the show, Martin walked out
with more money. A lot more money. I don’t know how
much he actually asked for, but I know he walked into
the meeting making $40,000 an episode and walked
out making $285,000 an episode. If Martin hadn’t been
carefree, the mere idea of asking for $30 million would
have never even come to him. The ability to go into a


174   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
negotiations meeting and ask for an astronomical salary
increase in a relaxed manner requires a well-trained care-
freeness muscle. The TV execs clearly recognized that
and pursued Martin.



MYSELF AS AN EXAMPLE

At the time of writing this book, I’m in negotiations with
an English celebrity to join his team as a consultant. I can’t
say the guy’s name because nothing is finalized, but as of
early 2017, he had 33 million followers on the major social
media networks. For perspective, Oprah Winfrey had
about 25 million followers. I know a number of the other
guys that have already signed on to join this celebrity’s
team, and they’re all pumped. But for me, it’s not quite
as black and white.


Being carefree allows you to recognize many different
options. As a high-status individual, I’m simply keeping
my options open. To me, it’s not just a simple yes or no.
For instance, maybe I don’t sign a contract, but instead
get a piece of the company itself. That’s just one possi-
ble alternative.


It’s been an ongoing process, but I’m the last one of their
targets that’s yet to sign anything. Because of that, they’re
coming back with more and more counteroffers, as they


                                H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   175
push harder and harder to get me on board. The most
recent offers I’ve gotten have been greater than the offers
of the people I know who’ve already signed with them.
By the time this book is printed, I may have ultimately
decided against joining this celebrity’s team at all. I live
a carefree life.


You know who also lives a carefree life? My man Harvey
Specter on the TV show Suits. Even if you don’t watch the
show, here’s all you need to know: Specter is a goal-ori-
ented, successful, high-status character, but he’s also very
carefree. He’ll be saving a billion-dollar company in court
while cracking jokes at the same time.


There’s one scene in particular that captures Specter’s
carefreeness. He’s mentoring Mike, another one of the
attorneys at the firm, and getting frustrated with him
because Mike has given up on a problem. He says they
have no options, which sets Specter off. Specter asks Mike
what he’d do if someone put a gun to his head. Mike replies,
“What are you talking about? You do what they say, or
they shoot you.” “Wrong,” Specter shoots back. “You
take the gun, or you pull out a bigger one, or you call their
bluff, or you do any one of 146 other things.” It’s a great
fucking scene, but to my point, Specter is carefree, so he
can envision all these different options.



176   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
ALLURING VERSUS REPULSIVE

Think about the last person you met who had a repulsive
personality. I’m not talking about their physical appear-
ance, just their personality. I bet their personality gave
off a sense that wanted something from their interaction
with you. Whether they wanted you to see them as a tough
guy, or as the boss, or they just wanted your attention. A
repulsive personality is defined by a sense of neediness—a
need for validation, a need for approval, a need to be liked.
Neediness drives us away.


No one wants to come across as needy. We want to be
alluring, which is equal parts attention and mystery.
There’s a hint of mystery about an alluring person because
they’re not overcommunicating. They’re not broadcasting
every single detail of their life on social media. They don’t
feel a need to do that to gain validation, because they are
certain of themselves. Their circles of influence are big,
and their circles of concern are small. We are drawn to
people like this.


Overcommunicating makes you look like you’re trying
too hard, and people that try too hard aren’t cool. People
who are relaxed and nonchalant about life, on the other
hand, typically are pretty damn cool. There’s a great quote
that’s stuck with me for a long time on this subject: love
never dies of starvation, but often of indigestion. If you’re


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   17 7
calling, texting, or communicating with someone too
often, you’re going to push them away. Overcommuni-
cation is the indigestion in this metaphor. Like too much
food is bad for the stomach, too much neediness is bad for
attraction. It’s important sometimes to just let the other
person wonder about you.


Before Dwight D. Eisenhower was President of the United
States, he spent five years as the president of Colum-
bia University. At one point during his tenure, a number
of professors banded together to complain about stu-
dents walking across the lawn on campus instead of the
sidewalks. The lawn was the quickest, most direct path
between buildings, while the sidewalks were more round-
about. When alerted to this, Eisenhower calmly told the
professors, “Did you ever notice how much quicker it is
to head directly where you’re going? Why don’t we just
find out which route the students are going to take and
just build the walks there?”


That’s an alluring, carefree response, and it highlights the
two sides of this coin. On one side, there was the reactive,
needy behavior by the professors in blowing something
as unimportant as where students were walking out of
proportion. They were confined to a fixed set of rules. On
the other side, there was a powerful, carefree response
from Eisenhower, who knew the students were just going


178   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to take the most direct path no matter what. Like water,
they went with the flow and adapted to the reality of
the situation.



ADVENTUROUS VERSUS GRAVELIKE

I know a guy who makes $80,000 a month on the Internet.
That’s not his yearly income—that’s what he’s pulling in
each and every month. Needless to say he’s doing just
fine financially. Yet this same guy won’t leave his current
full-time office as a programmer. His annual salary for
that position? $60,000. Let’s see—$80,000 per month
versus $60,000 per year. Which would you choose?


He’s genuinely afraid that the Internet will eventually
collapse, or that a tech bubble will burst, or that his online
business just won’t last forever. This is someone who has
trained himself to be as worry-prone as humanly possible.
He is already living a gravelike existence. Choosing not to
live adventurously is simply choosing not to live. Only a
dead body is truly protected. Everything that lives is always
in danger. Simply being alive is a hazard. As humans, we
forget this. We think because we’ve built houses and other
buildings that make us feel safe that we’re protected, but
the reality is that we’re always in danger.


Friedrich Nietzsche always kept a personal motto


                                H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   179
hanging on his wall. It read, “Live dangerously.” When-
ever anyone asked him why he wanted that displayed, he
said, “Because my fear is tremendous and I never want
to forget the truth.” If you look at some people in today’s
world, they’re basically dead already. It’s sad but true.
They settle into this pattern of convenience and monotony,
and it’s essentially a gravelike existence.


I once heard a story about a father and his young daughter,
whom he had brought to a birthday party for one of her
friends from school. The daughter was mesmerized by
the sparkling birthday candles on the cake, the colorful
balloons, and the lively singing of “Happy Birthday.” She
turned to her father and asked, “Daddy, were there such
beautiful days when you were alive?” When children are
young, they often see their parents as robots programmed
to do the same things every day, instead of living people
capable of enjoying the moment.


I’ve tried to be mindful of this in my own life and never
allow gravelike monotony to take hold, but it wasn’t
until 2012 that I took my most adventurous leap of faith.
I remember the moment vividly. I was at my usual gym,
the Equinox Fitness Club in Santa Monica, doing rep after
rep of bicep curls. I had been going to the gym almost
every day for the previous few months, and I was definitely
seeing the physical results. But as I looked around the


18 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
gym as the same fucking people doing the same fucking
exercises, it hit me: I was one of them. I was settling in a
predictable routine, doing the same thing over and over
every day. When that realization hit me, I dropped the
weight in the middle of the set, left the gym, walked the
four blocks back to my apartment, and booked a one-way
ticket to Medellín, Colombia. I shit you not.


I don’t know where the rush for Colombia came from. I
hadn’t been reading about Pablo Escobar, or watching
a show about the country. I can’t explain why I picked
Colombia, but I knew I had to shake things up. I had to
do something adventurous, and I had to do it at that exact
moment. And, of course, what happened next? I told my
roommate what I was doing, and he asked to join. An
hour after that, another friend got on board. Later that
week, two more friends joined in. We ended up spending
three months in a beautiful penthouse on the top of a hill
in Colombia.


Adventurous living is contagious. Human beings are
made to move around. We were not meant to settle down
in one place and stay there forever. Even if you own a
house, you don’t have to remain there every single day.
The simple act of traveling can dramatically increase your
carefree muscle.



                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   181
In 2016, I visited Rome, Venice, Italy, Thailand, Amster-
dam, London, Scotland, China, Hong Kong, and more. At
this point in my life, I’m on a plane nearly 100 days a year.
I don’t say this to impress anyone. I force myself to travel,
especially when I’m feeling comfortable, because it helps
keep my carefree muscle active and strong. I understand
it might not be feasible for you to travel as often as I have,
but trust me, you have it in you. Even short weekend trips
or day trips can make a difference. Embrace your inner
humanity by getting up and moving around once in a while.



BUILDING YOUR CAREFREENESS

Carefreeness is in us all. Some people are just more out
of practice than others. In that sense, it’s no different
than a muscle on your body. You’ve got to work out to get
stronger, and you’ve got to practice different techniques
to strengthen your carefreeness.



VERBALS

Start by practicing carefreeness in your conversations.
One of my favorite things to have clients do is practice
this when extending invitations. For instance, most guys,
when they ask a girl out, will say something like, “Hey,
I’m free Friday night. Let’s go grab a drink and a movie,”
or, “Let’s grab a drink and dinner.”


18 2   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
This is basically the standard line for date invitations,
and it’s simply not effective anymore. Why? Because it
immediately puts pressure on the girl—a pressure to say
yes—and no one likes feeling pressured. One-on-one
dates are stressful—what to wear, what to talk about, what
happens at the end of the night. If you simply attach a
rider to every invitation, it changes the whole dynamic,
and it highlights your magnetic carefreeness. So instead
of saying, “Hey, I’m free Friday night, let’s grab drinks,”
first ask, “Hey, when are you free this weekend—Friday or
Saturday?” After she tells you Friday is better, for exam-
ple, follow up with, “Cool. Let’s grab drinks Friday, if you
think you can hang at this level.” Something as simple
as “if you think you can hang at this level” immediately
lightens the mood, removes the pressure, and establishes
you as that carefree person.


Another verbal exercise is simply ending a phone call
first. It’s amazing how long some people drag on phone
conversations. Don’t be one of them. When you’re done,
you’re done. Hang up the damn phone.


Your everyday errands offer another perfect opportunity
to practice verbal carefreeness. Whether you’re checking
out at a grocery store, paying for a burrito at Chipotle, or
otherwise out in public somewhere, don’t be afraid to
crack a simple, self-entertaining joke with people. More


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   183
than likely, you’re only going to deal with these people
for thirty seconds, so use it as an opportunity to train the
muscle. Make a joke that’s funny to you, but don’t worry
about whether the other person finds it funny. Remember,
that’s an outcome, and you can’t control it. For example, I
was recently at the grocery store, and the girl at the register
asked for my phone number to see if I was in the store’s
system. My response? “You’re not going to start blowing
up my phone, are you?” We both shared a laugh. She may
or may not have asked for my phone number in return.
Simple. Carefree.


Pick one of these verbal techniques and start practicing
it now. Don’t put it off. Practice it today and tomorrow.
Notice how other people respond to you.



BODY LANGUAGE

You’re going to start with something I call the foot trick.
We’re taught from a young age how to lie with our faces,
but we’re never taught how to lie or deceive with our feet.
In fact, a lot of times you’ll find feet are the most honest
signal of how someone is feeling.


Take note of this in your future conversations. If you’re
talking to someone and one of their feet starts pointing
off to the left or right instead of directly at you, something


18 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
else is on their mind. It’s not that they dislike you. They
might have a meeting to get to, or an appointment, or
something else on their schedule. When I notice this, I’ll
say, “You have somewhere to be, don’t you?” They’ll look
at you with a thankful expression as they think, “How did
you read my mind?”


Be aware of this when you have conversations with people.
On the flip side, put yourself in the feet—literally—of the
other person in this example. By pointing one of your feet
out and casually bouncing up and down on your toes,
you’re conveying to the other person you’re more carefree
about the conversation. It’s not do-or-die for you.


Practice this, along with the verbal technique you selected,
today and tomorrow. Again, observe how other people
react to you.


Another body language trick is an old favorite: when in
doubt, lean out. People who are worry-prone are always
leaning in. Don’t fall prey to that. People who are carefree
are laid back and relaxed. When in doubt, lean out.



MEDITATION

Here’s another one we’ve covered at length, but it bears
repeating. Meditation is so important not only for your


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   185
state control, but for your carefreeness. It allows many of
the attachments that people have to dissipate. A calmer,
more focused mind is a carefree mind.


Meditation is something everyone, everywhere can do,
regardless of previous experience. Start small—just
three minutes at first, like we highlighted in the last
chapter, is perfect—and steadily increase the length of
your meditations.



DESTINY KEEPS YOU ON TRACK

The most important thing to understand about your inter-
nal carefreeness is that it’s fueled by your high-status
destiny. Whatever your vision is in life, it’s so valuable
to you and takes up so much of your time, attention, and
focus that you naturally start to assign less significance to
everything else. Twitter likes, Instagram comments, text
messages—all of that bullshit starts to mean less and less.
Your high-status destiny will push you far beyond those
types of insignificant distractions.


Something else to keep in mind: every plane is off course
for 99 percent of every flight. Bet you didn’t know. This
is something known as course-tracking, and it basically
means that even though the plane is never perfect, it’s still
on its path to its destination. When Steve Jobs sat down


18 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
with the king of Spain, he wasn’t worried about whether he
was on course 100 percent of the time. He was focused on
his behaviors and striving to make himself better. He was
always course-correcting toward his high-status destiny.



WHAT-IFS

There are two common questions I typically get asked
about high-status carefreeness. The first one is, “Is
carefreeness just not caring?” The truth is…sometimes.
Remember, it’s easier to your act your way into a new
way of thinking than it is to think your way into a new
way of acting. Keeping that in mind, you’re going to be
practicing all these techniques until they become natural.
Model yourself after someone you perceive as carefree.
Eventually, you’ll start receiving similar responses from
others, and it will give you a different feeling than you’ve
been used to. There will certain situations in your life
where you simply don’t care, and that’s great—that means
you’re becoming carefree.


The other question I hear all the time is, “Jason, is this
going to make me an asshole?” Absolutely not. People love
putting labels on shit, and they especially love labeling
your change in a negative way because your upward move-
ment frightens them. I have a friend who recently left his
nine-to-five job, which he hated, to pursue a career in


                               H I G H - S TAT U S C A R E F R E E N E S S ·   187
copywriting. He loves writing and selling, so it’s a perfect
fit. His family, however, has only hounded him, claiming
he’s put his entire future in jeopardy. They’re constantly
begging him to “return to his senses.” Of course, when
they say “his senses,” they mean “their wishes.” Why do
people who love us do that? It’s a weapon to keep you from
changing. Change can be intimidating for other people
and difficult for them to accept, but don’t let that deter
you. Remember, you’re on your path to your high-status
destiny, and the hard truth is they probably aren’t.


Stay on your path, focus on the different techniques high-
lighted in this chapter, and you’ll become truly carefree,
which is the most attractive high-status trait. And hon-
estly, what a perfect segue, because I just hit you with
some high-status truth, which is what the next chapter
is all about. In a world full of wussies and self-deceivers,
you’ll stand out by expressing your true feelings while
maintaining your power and strength. I’ll show you how,
right now.




18 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                    Chapter Nine



       HIGH-STATUS TRUTH

How would you define the word truth? Webster’s Dictio-
nary has a great definition: “that which is.” I love it. It’s
so succinct, yet so correct. In fact, if you really want to
have some fun, the next time you’re having a few drinks
with friends, ask them to define the word truth. You’ll get
a lot of confused looks, followed by some great discourse
as they begin to realize they’ve never truly considered
something so important to the happiness and success
of their lives.


It’s hard to define truth. To me, it’s aiming to get as close
to objectivity as possible. That looks good written on
paper, but here’s the problem: everyone’s brain is caked
in bullshit. This isn’t meant as a dig at any of you, my
loyal readers. It’s just a reflection of the world we live in.


                                       H I G H - S T A T U S T R U T H ! · ! 189
With the way the news media works in conjunction with
social media, there’s often a serious difference between
that which is and that which is reported. Everyone’s inter-
pretation of what happened in a given news story is going
to be different. We’re flooded with endless points of view,
analyzing and dissecting things over and over to the point
of nausea. Their storytelling ends up replacing reality
with their version of reality. The truth is rarely seen and
rarely heard in the world we live in now.


A woman asked me an interesting question at one of my
recent events. She had a close friend who had poured
most of her life savings into creating an app, but she felt
strongly the app was doomed to fail. “I don’t want to tell
her because I don’t want to hurt her feelings. What do you
think I should do?” Most people avoid saying what they
think to save a relationship, friendship, or connection.
The reality is when you hold back, you’re actually pushing
the person farther away from the true you. Even worse,
you’re clipping their wings at the same time by allowing
them to continue with something that won’t benefit them.
That girl’s friend could have been doing something better
with her time and energy, but she hadn’t gotten a single
memo from the world, because no one spoke up to her.
My answer to her question was simple: unless you’re an
asshole and want your friend to continue struggling, yes,
tell her.


19 0   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
I know you’re reading this right now and thinking of the
specific situations in your own life and relationships with
others, whether it’s not sharing how you truly feel about
their behavior, or how you feel about the way they dress,
talk, or communicate. Maybe there’s a boundary in your
current relationship with a significant other, friend, or
even family member that’s making you unhappy, but
because it seems difficult or painful to give truth, you
instead continue to avoid the issue. Yet the truth is, the
more you avoid it, the bigger the problem gets, and the
further you distance yourself from them.


A few years ago, I said, enough. I had grown so tired of
everyone just avoiding these issues. It seemed like all
my conversations were packed with bullshit. Everyone
was dancing around the real issues. I wanted to see what
would happen if I just started telling the truth. Admittedly,
in the beginning, I started off too extreme, but I had to
find the right balance.


One of the first times I tried this, I was sitting with my
buddies, as one of them talked about a girl he liked who
hadn’t texted him back. The other guys were like, “OK,
man, break it down for us. What happened?” He then went
on a ten-minute spiel about their first date, what they did,
what they talked about—on and on and on. Everyone in
the room knew the same thing I did: this girl just wasn’t


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   191
into him. But no one said a goddamn thing. I stepped up
to the plate. “Dude, I love you, and that’s why I’m telling
you this right now. She’s not interested in you. She obvi-
ously doesn’t have good taste, but that’s OK. We’ll go out
tonight and find someone better.” There’s a short period,
maybe ten minutes, of painful acceptance. It sucks to hear
something like that, but he was so grateful that someone
actually gave it to him straight.


High-status truth became a way of life for me years ago,
and it still is today. Now the hundreds of thousands of
people I’ve taught to give truth lead happier, more joyful,
more fulfilled lives and have happier, more joyful, more
fulfilled relationships with people. Their relationships are
based in the context of truth and honesty, as opposed to
verbal constipation and bullshit. Which one would you
rather have?



TRUTH IS PERSONAL

Not long before I started writing this book, I came to the
inescapable realization that I was personally unhappy
with my own life. I just wasn’t excited about life. In most
people’s eyes, I should have been: I’m a self-made mil-
lionaire with a mission I’m superpassionate about, a
beautiful girlfriend, a gorgeous house, and connections
with celebrities and other high-status people all over the


192   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
world. How could Jason Capital be unhappy with his life?


The more I analyzed everything and was honest with
myself, I came to understand I wasn’t happy with the
way my relationship was set up. See, in relationships,
sometimes you want closeness and other times you want
aloneness. People usually have an innate tendency toward
one or the other. Maybe you feel better when you’re close
to your partner, or maybe you feel suffocated if you’re too
close all the time. When an aloneness person feels too
much closeness, they begin to feel unsafe in the relation-
ship. When a closeness person feels too much distance,
they too begin to feel unsafe in the relationship.


In all relationships, safety is the most important thing. And
yet in my own relationship, I—the big dating coach—had
allowed things to get unsafe. My girlfriend is very inde-
pendent, but she leans toward the closeness side of the
spectrum. I am the opposite. I lean toward the aloneness
side. I’d set up my life so there wasn’t enough aloneness,
or “me time,” and it was making me feel unhappy. How do
you let someone know that you love them with every fiber
of your being, yet need more time alone without them
feeling hurt or taking it personally? This is why becom-
ing a strong, open, honest, high-status communicator
is incredibly important. I communicated honestly and
openly with her about this, in the same ways I’m going to


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   193
show you in this chapter, and since then, our relationship
and partnership have never been stronger.


Truth is not always easy, believe me. Shit, it was hard
for me just to share that story about my girlfriend and
me with hundreds of thousands of people I’ve never
met, but it conveys such an important point: telling the
truth is difficult. Having those types of conversations
can cause tension or anxiety, and that’s totally normal.
What makes someone high status is the ability to stay the
course, regardless of any feelings of anxiety or tension
that might arise. The conversation between my girlfriend
and me was not easy, but it needed to happen. Being able
to communicate open and honestly with someone, while
still being able to strengthen the bond between the two
of you, is so powerful. Once you master this skill, you’ll
no longer have to worry about things like “I left that thing
unsaid,” or “I don’t know how to have this conversation.”
There are specific ways to have these high-stakes, difficult
conversations in a way that makes them easy and helpful
for both parties.



THE POWER OF HIGH-STATUS TRUTH

While most people focus on the anxiety or tension that
giving truth can create, they fail to consider the benefits,
and there are several. The first benefit is obvious: you will


19 4   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
stand out. We’ve already established that most people
dance around the real issues with their friends, family,
and significant others. By simply giving truth, you will
refreshingly rare and authentic.


Beyond simply standing out, you will become better
understood. People have an ingrained desire to feel
understood. Ralph Nichols, who conducted the study
of listening, said, “The most basic of all human needs is
the need to understand and be understood.” This makes
sense, right? No one wants to walk away constantly having
others misinterpret their feelings. Think about the friends
you’re closest with, the ones who you feel understand you
on a deeper level. If you become someone who constantly
exhibits high-status truth, it will become more obvious
when something is bothering you.


I’ll give you a quick example of this. I always tell people
when I enter a business relationship with them that when
I’m uncomfortable with something, my tendency is sit
silently, pretending like I’m thinking about something,
but, in reality, I’m just thinking about whatever has made
me uncomfortable. I talk a lot, so it’s pretty noticeable
when I go quiet.


People who don’t give truth would never share those
kinds of personal traits, which can be really helpful in


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   195
both business and personal relationships. I have one busi-
ness partner in particular who, knowing how I handle
uncomfortable situations, called me on it. We were in a
follow-up meeting to review some of his tweaks for an
idea we had worked on a few months earlier, and I didn’t
like the tweaks. We sat there for a minute before he said,
“Jason, what’s the friction that you’re feeling inside right
now?” What a genius fucking question. It snapped me
right out of it and we resolved the entire issue.


Those who give high-status truth also exude a certain
magnetism others don’t. There’s a certain signal their
energy sends out. They’re present, they’re listening,
they’re hearing the real you, and they have no problem
calling you on your bullshit.


John F. Kennedy is a shining example of someone who
exuded magnetism through his ability to truly listen and
give truth. When he was at Stanford University for grad-
uate business classes, he was already well known. His
parents were famous, of course, and some of the local
newspapers in Northern California had written about
him. While he was eating lunch one day, Kennedy was
approached by another student, Henry James. The two
struck up a conversation and Kennedy invited him to eat
with him. Kennedy asked James question after question:
Where are you from? Where did you graduate from? What


19 6   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
did you study? How did you do there? What are you doing
here? Within five minutes, Kennedy knew James’s life
story. Kennedy had a focus on learning and connect-
ing, not impressing anyone. If he wasn’t someone who
gave truth and spoke freely, he wouldn’t have peppered
his new friend with questions. But that’s what Kennedy
did with everyone he met, because he genuinely wanted
to connect and learn about people. Billionaire Charlie
Munger has said curiosity is one of the greatest tools at
our disposal, and you can’t be curious without being able
to give truth freely.


High-status truth will also help others open up. Bill Gates
was notorious for his confrontational style of commu-
nication—more on that later. But he was also known for
going first. When you want someone to do something—in
this case, give truth—you’ve got to first do it yourself. His
coming into meetings totally extreme and bombastic,
saying things like, “That’s the stupidest fucking idea I’ve
ever heard,” creates an environment where everyone can
be totally honest with each other and not take it personally.
And yes, Gates really did say things like that to the people
he worked with. You certainly don’t have to go that far.
Personally, I’m not a fan of the word stupid. Why? I don’t
know, it’s just…stupid. See, there it goes again! Anyway.
Onward.



                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   197
YOUR APPROACH

There’s a right way and wrong way to approach high-status
truth. Let’s break down a few different dos and don’ts.


 • Do make the person feel safe. Make sure the person
       you’re sharing truth with knows you’re coming from
       a caring perspective. Come into the situation with
       genuine, good intentions for yourself, them, and
       your relationship. It has to take place in a context
       of safety, and there’s no faking that. You have to
       truly care, without judgment or expectation.
 • Don’t make them feel threatened. This should be
       obvious after that last bullet point, but it’s import-
       ant to keep in mind. If someone punches you in the
       face, what do you do? You either fight back or run
       away—fight or flight. Well, a threatening statement
       of truth will cause the same reaction.
 • Do help them. What about criticizing people? Is
       that giving truth? You certainly don’t want to say,
       “Hey, you suck at making coffee.” That’s threatening.
       Instead, point out to them what great coffee tastes
       like and let them connect the dots. That’s what a
       high-status communicator does.
 • Don’t overcommunicate. Every single thought that
       crosses your mind doesn’t need to be verbalized.
       This is the problem with Facebook, Twitter, and Ins-
       tagram, right? People tweet or post in the heat of


19 8   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
   the moment, without thinking. If you’re constantly
   just spewing everything on your mind all the time,
   the truth you give loses all its oomph and value.
   Keep your powder dry. Use it in key moments and
   situations in your life.



TRAINING YOUR TRUTH

Truth, like all of the other signals of high status we’ve
covered so far, is a muscle. It will take a little practice,
but with time, you can master it. These exercises will
help you get there.



AURELIUS EXERCISE

This one is named after the great Roman emperor Marcus
Aurelius, and it’s actually something he was known to
do quite frequently. He would look at things that, in his
opinion, people valued too highly, and he would define
them more literally. Remember, truth is that which is.
So, something like vintage wine? He would call that old
grapes. Roasted meat? That was dead animal. He tried to
get as close to reality as he could without painting these
items in hyperbolic colors.


In our modern-day world, a viral celebrity post would be a
sad person seeking attention. A Lamborghini? Just a metal


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   199
container for transportation. Not only is this exercise fun
to do, you can it anytime, anywhere.



RENAMING TRAINING CEREMONY

This is a rite of passage for everyone who becomes high
status. Like the Aurelius exercise, this one can be fun, but
you’ve got to actually interact with other people. After
you finish reading this chapter, you’re going to try this
on the next five people you meet. It has to be people—
and names—you don’t already know. You’re going to
rename them.


If they say, “Hey, it’s great to meet you, I’m Mark,” you’re
going to reply, “You know, it’s funny. You don’t really look
like a Mark. You look more like a Steve.” What you’re
doing with this exercise isn’t abusive, mean, or hurtful.
It’s just practice in communicating in unfamiliar but more
powerful ways. You’re going to practice saying something
most people would be uncomfortable saying, and that’s
the whole point.


The second part of this ceremony is similar, but with a
fun tweak. You’re going to do the renaming bit again with
the next five people you meet, but you’re going to do it
while modeling a high-status character. Pick someone
from a movie, TV show, or any other medium, whom


200   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
you recognize as a truth-giver that just calls shit like it
is. Model their tonality and nonchalance when you’re
renaming the next five people.


You’ll notice a totally different response than the first time
through. Don’t worry—it’s all part of the development.
You’ll be amazed how quickly you begin to internalize
how to give truth, and with what tonality to give it.



SOMETHING LEFT UNSAID

Think of one conversation you’ve been avoiding for way
too long. From the thousands of people I’ve met from
over 150 countries in my life, I have yet to meet a single
person who wasn’t keenly aware of at least one conver-
sation they’ve been avoiding.


Identify one conversation you’ve been avoiding and
answer the following questions:


 • What has avoiding this conversation cost me so far?
 • If I never have this conversation, what will it cost
    me?
 • If I do have this conversation, what is the likely
    outcome?
 • When will I have this conversation?




                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   201
Answer all these questions honestly. This is going to be
challenging, but it’s so important. List out all the different
answers that come to mind and analyze them. If you can
see, on paper, what this delayed conversation has cost you
already or will cost you in the future, compared to the most
likely outcome, it’s not going to seem as bad as you think.


If you then approach the person and let them know you
have the best intentions in mind for everyone involved,
I guarantee it’s going to bring you much closer to that
person than continuing to push them away. The final step,
of course, is to set a date and time to have the conversation.
You can do this. It seems daunting at first, but take it slow
and you’ll get there.



MENTAL COMMITMENT TRICK

Remember, it’s going to be a process. A lot of times people
will start giving high-status truth, but they will let their
state affect it. It’s easy to give truth when you’re in a great
state, right? But what about when you’re in a lousy state?
When that happens, it’s easier to let things pass by or
come up with an excuse. Shit, I still go through this. No
one is perfect.


I recommend typing this out in your phone so you have
access to it at all times. Save a note somewhere that reads,


2 02   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
“The next time I get the opportunity to __________, I’m going
to __________,” and fill in the blanks. This will help set your
brain to be aware of the specific thing you wanted to do
but didn’t do the previous time. It’s a commitment and
promise to yourself that you’ll take that action. Years ago
I met this girl on the Santa Monica Promenade. We hit it
off, but when I had to go, instead of exchanging phone
numbers with her, I let the fear of rejection win. I remem-
ber walking away, frustrated with myself for not taking
action. But instead of lamenting the missed opportunity,
I took a proactive and productive next step.


I whipped out my phone and opened a new note. I then
typed, “Jason, the next time you meet someone and hit it
off with them, will you ask for their number?” I read the
question back to myself, thought about it for a second,
then typed my response: yes.


You might think, “Well, if I write it in my phone today and
forget about it for two weeks, what’s the point?” Trust me,
you’ll be amazed at how quickly it pops back into your
brain the next time around.



A QUICK PARABLE

As you become a high-status communicator, you’ll under-
stand how to share difficult things with people, but in a


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   203
way that actually builds them up and strengthens the
bond between you both. Stories, anecdotes, and para-
bles are one of the absolute best ways to do this, and a
favorite technique of the world’s best communicators. I
discovered the power of parables when I spoke to one of
my friends recently.


My friend was stuck in a negative relationship. Everyone
could tell he was being controlled and manipulated in a
hurtful way by his girlfriend. He had stopped seeing his
friends and family as much, and he was making decisions
that didn’t align with what he wanted to do in life. I knew it
wasn’t going to be easy to say, point blank, “Dude, I don’t
know what’s happened, but your girlfriend is controlling
you in very negative ways for yourself.” I wanted to try a
different approach by telling him a little parable about B.
F. Skinner, the famous behaviorist who studied classical
conditioning. As I started to tell the quick story, in which
Skinner conditions a new mouse in his lab by having it
push a button for food, my friend immediately drew the
conclusion on his own: he was the mouse. It’s a unique
way to start a conversation, but it allowed him to realize,
on his own, that he wasn’t in a healthy relationship. That’s
almost always more palatable for people because, in their
minds, they’ve drawn the conclusion on their own, rather
than having to be told by someone else. We really didn’t
even need the second part of the conversation about his


204   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
relationship with his girlfriend, because his brain pulled
the lesson out of the parable, though we still had it.


He and his girlfriend had an important conversation and
are since doing great. Ever since then, I’ve started collect-
ing parables for different situations. You never know when
one can help a friend or family member, and do so in a
way that doesn’t create resistance. With that said, I want
to share one of my favorite parables with you right now.
Ironically, it’s a parable about parables. When I read this, it
locked in the idea that I needed to collect different stories,
anecdotes, and parables to be a high-status communicator.


One night Truth, naked and cold, had been turned
away from every door in the village. Her nakedness had
frightened the people. When Parable found her, she was
huddled up in a corner, shivering and hungry. Taking pity
on her, Parable gathered her up and took her home. There
she dressed Truth in a story and warmed her and sent her
out again. This time, clothed in a story, Truth knocked
again at the village doors and was readily welcomed into
the people’s houses. They invited Truth to eat at their
tables and warm herself by their fire.


What a perfect parable to remind you to remember para-
bles. People have a habit of rejecting the truth. When you
wrap the truth in a story and clothe it with a parable, they


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   205
accept it. It’s a great practice to have a few little stories
like that at the ready.



WHAT-IFS

By far, the most common question I get asked about
high-status truth is, “What if this is too hard?” I under-
stand why: no one wants to hurt someone they care about.
But just remember, if you’re coming from a place of love
and support, the truth is better for them than speak-
ing falsely.


One tip I tell a lot of my clients to utilize is starting the
conversation out by saying, “This is one of the hardest
things for me to express. This is going to be difficult for
me,” or “This has been weighing on my mind for weeks.
I can barely sleep, but I just want you to know I’m not
comfortable with this.” Who is going to reject that, coming
from a person they know and trust? No one.


It’s going to be hard at first, like training any muscle is,
but you will learn to love it. One of my favorite things
about high-status truth is you almost become addicted
to it. When you get through a challenging conversation
with someone and you both emerge still intact, that’s an
amazing fucking feeling. You’ll feel more alert, more alive,
and you’ll begin to cherish those moments.


206   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
If it’s hard at first, that’s great. You’ll build momentum
as you go. Just stick with it. Once you get started and run
through the different practices and exercises a few times,
you’ll discover it’s actually fun.


And when you’re having fun, it becomes very easy to enjoy
the next high-status trait—rapport control. Being able to
quickly build genuine rapport with people from all walks
of life is an invaluable skill that the world’s highest-status
people have all learned, yet it’s wildly understood by most.
You’re about to become one of the select few people in
the world to actually understand how to build true, lasting
rapport with anyone. Are you ready? The next page awaits.




                                       H I G H - S TAT U S T R U T H ·   207
                    C h a p t e r Te n



          HIGH-STATUS
        RAPPORT CONTROL

A few years ago, one of my good friends was interested in
one of the girls in his social circle. They had both known
each other as friends for some time, but he hoped they
could become more than that. He finally got her to go out
for drinks one night, which led to a second date.


At the end of the second date, my friend leaned in for a
good night kiss. She pulled back. It was a total rejection,
and he felt like shit about it. In his mind, he had done
everything “right” to build rapport. He asked open-ended
questions, listened intently, agreed with and approved of
her views, and even learned her birthday by the second
date. The problem was that he had mistakenly confused


                          H I G H - S T A T U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ! · ! 209
being a pushover with building rapport. I am stunned that
the majority of rapport-building advice still encourages
people to be a subservient mouse to others. Understand:
this will not make someone like you. It will make them
use you.


Rapport isn’t knowing when someone’s birthday is, or
where they grew up, or what college they went to. It isn’t
mirroring them physically, despite some insisting it is.
It’s not even necessarily about finding commonalities,
because in finding those commonalities, most come
across as needy and try-hard. So, if rapport isn’t any of
these things, what is it? The simplest definition is that
rapport is simply a relationship of responsiveness. When
you’re in rapport with someone, they respond to your
requests, answer your phone calls and texts, and readily
do favors for you, just as you do for them. There’s respon-
siveness there between two people.


Rapport control is being able to create rapport with others
at a specific speed. Sometimes you can’t afford to spend
months or years getting to know someone, so you have
to hit the fast-forward button. Let’s say, for instance, you
only have two weeks to close a deal with a business partner
or company. You don’t have six months to build a long-
term relationship. Instead, you have to take all the good
parts of a long-term relationship and figure out a way


2 10   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to comfortably piece them together in a much shorter
window. That’s high-status rapport control.



MORE ON RAPPORT

What else defines strong rapport with someone else? It
isn’t only a two-way street of responsiveness. Those in
rapport will also share a sense of trust. There will be a
sense of understanding as well. They will feel comfortable
in conversations.


When you’re in rapport with someone, you’ll find that
they open up to you very quickly. I can’t tell you how many
times I’ve met someone and, after only five minutes, they
start to tell me their entire life story or personal secrets
they normally wouldn’t tell someone they just met. I was
out to dinner recently with a business friend who knows
everyone in Hollywood. Our drinks hadn’t even arrived
before he started revealing all kinds of shocking stories
that he definitely shouldn’t have been sharing with me.
I didn’t even ask. It just happened subconsciously as a
result of that rapport.


We’ve already established that rapport is a relationship of
responsiveness, not resistance. You’ll know you’re out of
rapport with someone when they resist instead of respond
positively to you. The most important key to ensuring


                            H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   211
there is responsiveness between you and another person
is that you approach the interaction with good intentions.
We touched on this in the chapter on high-status care-
freeness, but it also applies here. If you simply come to
any interaction with genuinely heartfelt good intentions,
you’re not going to encounter resistance, because the
other person will feel safe, like they’re on your side and
you’re on theirs. People can always smell what you’re
cooking, right? If you’re not being genuine, people will
sniff that out and resist it. You can’t fake sincerity.


Along those same lines, if you approach any interaction
thinking, it’s going to be difficult, or focusing on how you
don’t like the person, it’s doomed to fail. You’ve got to
change that disc in your mind that’s playing that kind of
negative shit on repeat. Put a new disc in that says, “You
know what? This is going to be fun and interesting, and
at the very least I’m going to learn something new.” That
mind-set is so much more powerful.


How else can you avoid resistance? Don’t blatantly dis-
agree with someone. There is no quicker way to have
someone resist everything you say than to totally inval-
idate their thoughts or opinions. Someone once asked
Robert Downey Jr. what the secret to life is. His response
is one of my all-time favorite quotes. He looked at them
and said, “Smile, agree, and then do whatever the fuck


2 12   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
you were going to do anyway.” It’s a hilarious response, of
course, but it’s also great advice. The real genius is in the
“smile and agree” part, because those two acts avoid creat-
ing resistance. If someone tells you they think you should
do something a certain way and you fire back, “Fuck that,
you’re an idiot. I’m doing it my way,” well, that’s going to
create serious resistance. But if you avoid disagreement
by saying, “Your point is well taken” or “I totally see what
you’re saying,” and then continue on your path, you’ll
maintain a strong sense of rapport. Plus, they may or may
not be stunned by your conversational prowess.


There are four specific factors that help avoid resistance
and create rapport: shared goals, common enemies,
shared experiences, and strong emotions. Let’s break
them down:



SHARED GOALS

If you ever went to a sleepaway summer camp when you
were a kid, you’ll probably be able to relate this next exam-
ple. Even if you didn’t, this scenario should still ring true.


Picture two kids—one in Cabin A and the other in Cabin
B. During camp, they’re on separate teams with the rest of
their cabinmates, competing in different games and activ-
ities. They’re natural enemies, right? They’re competing


                            H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   213
directly against each other to complete the same goal,
and probably hurling a few “You suck” or “You’re ugly”
jabs while they’re at it.


Well, what happens when those cabins become one big
cabin, and those same kids suddenly find themselves
on the same team against a new cabin? Suddenly, the
other one doesn’t “suck” or look quite so “ugly” anymore.
There’s an instant shift in rapport, because the two kids
share a common goal as teammates.



COMMON ENEMIES

The United States and Mexico don’t always get along, but
when there’s a threat from across the pond, what happens?
The two countries band together to protect their lands.
It’s basically an “us versus them” mentality, and there’s
a positive response from each side.



SHARED EXPERIENCES

What’s one of the most common ways that business pro-
fessionals create rapport? It isn’t through meetings where
they share their hopes, goals, or passions. In fact, it’s not
even in the office. It’s on the golf course.


When you’re playing a round of golf with someone, you’re


2 14   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
sharing an experience together. It creates a stronger
bond and sense of rapport, because you’re doing some-
thing together.



STRONG EMOTIONS

If you have a shared goal or you’re fighting together against
a shared enemy, there are going to be strong emotions
involved. It’s naturally provided for you, because you’ll
both feel a strong desire either to defeat a common enemy
or achieve the same goal.



SIGNS OF RAPPORT

In one study, people were asked to make “preference
predictions” about people they already knew. In the
first group, they were asked to make predictions about
people they’d known for ten years. In the other group,
they’d known the people for just two years. They also
asked the participants how accurate they thought their
predictions would be. Everyone in the study predicted
they’d be at least 60 percent accurate, regardless if they’d
known the person for ten years or two years. So, what
were the results?


For people they’d known ten years, the preference predic-
tions were only 36 percent accurate. But it gets stranger.


                            H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   215
For people they’d known two years, their preference pre-
dictions were higher—42 percent. In my opinion, these
people’s predictions sucked. If you really tune in and
listen to people, and really hear past their words, you can
learn so much. The results also spoke loudly about a deep
human truth: most of us tell ourselves we mostly know
the people around us, but the reality is we don’t. To me,
that’s excellent news. It means there’s never been a better
time to learn about our friends and family and leverage
one of our greatest gifts—our ability to cultivate curiosity.


Cultivating curiosity will help build rapport, because
people love it when others are curious about them. We
love it when people ask us questions about what we do,
where we’re going, what we’re passionate about, and
what’s important to us. Almost everyone enjoys being in
the spotlight, as long as it’s in a comfortable way.


I have a friend who keeps a short list in his head when he
meets someone new. He says if he can walk away from a
first conversation having learned that person’s main goal
in life, the thing they fear the most, their greatest passion,
the names of their family members, and share at least one
inside joke with them, he’s as close to them as one of their
closest friends in a matter of minutes. It’s not a hard-and-
fast checklist. That wouldn’t be genuine. He just tries to
naturally steer the conversation to hit all of those questions.


2 16   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
If you want to know about someone’s passion, it’s an easy
transition to make in conversation. Say you’re talking
to someone about one of the best players in the NBA,
Stephen Curry. You can say, “You know what I love most
about Steph Curry? I read his workouts are insane. He
shoots 1,500 shots per day. That dude is just so passionate
about what he does. What about you? Have you ever had
anything in your life that you were that passionate about?”
The other person you’re talking to might even be taken
aback at first, because they’ve never had anyone show
that kind of interest in them before. After a second or two,
they’ll see your body language isn’t leaning in or seeking
any kind of approval, and they’ll realize, “This could be
a great conversation. I’m going to dive in headfirst.” In
that scenario, you’re not being weird or creepy. You’re
being carefree and high status.


My favorite question to ask people—seriously, you can
never go wrong with this—is simply, “So what are you
trying to do with your life?” It’s so simple, and it cuts right
to the heart of it. If you remember the acronym AAJ—aims,
ambitions, joys—you’ll do well. In fact, that’s all you have
to talk about to make the conversation a fun, personal and
memorable one for the other person.


One of the most common problems I see people run into
when trying to build rapport is that they focus too much


                             H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   217
on the verbal side. They might be in rapport verbally with
another person, but the other, nonverbal factors are out
of rapport. You don’t have to completely mirror someone
with the way you sit, stand, and move, but if they have a
smaller, quieter energy and speak slowly, you can’t come
crashing in with a bold, loud energy and rapid pace. You
shouldn’t be a photographic image of them, but you also
shouldn’t be crazy different, either. Think about this way:
you want the two of you to be like peanut butter and jelly,
not peanut butter and jellyfish.



DEEP RAPPORT VERSUS WIDE RAPPORT

These two different types of rapport might sound sim-
ilar, but they’re vastly different. Wide rapport is when
your conversation topics with someone include things
like your favorite ice cream flavor, your favorite sports
teams, the upcoming Halloween party, the time you lost
your virginity, and how shit is in the work office. A wide
rapport is the ability to talk about a wide variety of topics.
It runs across the entire spectrum.


Deep rapport is where someone feels comfortable enough
with you that, instead of hitting on a bunch of topics, they
want to zero in on one. It’s typically personal in nature,
but because you both have a deep sense of rapport, you
feel comfortable talking about it. Sharing with people


2 18   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
your biggest goal in life and what you spend your time
thinking about can make you feel vulnerable, so it takes
a lot of trust to confide that in someone. You’re not going
to broadcast something like that around to everyone you
meet. Instead, you’ll trust the person with good intentions
that you have a deep rapport with.



RAPPORT ENERGIZERS

Sometimes you just don’t have six months or a year to
develop a relationship with someone. You might only have
a day or two, or a week or two, so you have to accelerate
the rate at which that rapport can grow. To that end, I
have seven different rapport energizers to jump-start
that acceleration. Just keep in mind to not use all seven
simultaneously on one person. That would be complete
overkill. It’s like a buffet. Pick one or two that work best
in a given situation.



BEN FRANKLIN TRICK

Back when in the late 1700s when Ben Franklin was seek-
ing reelection as a delegate in the Pennsylvania legislature,
a younger rival candidate emerged. Franklin wanted to
take him under his wing and groom him for the future,
but the new guy had no interest in that.



                            H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   219
Franklin asked around and found out that the guy had an
impressive collection of rare and valuable books. Franklin,
being a voracious reader himself, wrote him a letter asking
to borrow one book in particular. Franklin asked to borrow
the book for six weeks and promised to return it on time.


The rival legislator was flattered by this request, so he
sent the book. Franklin received the book, put it on his
desk, and didn’t touch it for the entire six weeks before
he returned it on time, as promised. At the next legisla-
tive gathering, instead of ignoring him, the younger guy
approached Franklin and struck up a pleasant conversa-
tion. The two remained close for the rest of their lives.
What happened?


There’s a psychological principle called the commitment
and consistency bias, and it states that when we act a cer-
tain way toward someone, whether it’s positive or negative,
we take meaning from that action about how we feel about
that person. Simply receiving a favor from someone will
actually make them like you and trust you more.



CONFESSIONS

This one comes courtesy of Warren Buffet, who is very
quietly a master of rapport. Every year, Buffet writes a
letter to all the Berkshire Hathaway stockholders detailing


220   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
the previous year, the current state of the company, and
what lies ahead. Every single shareholder looks forward
to that letter, because it’s the one time of year they all get
to hear directly from him.


For the last several decades, Buffet has opened every
letter not with an accomplishment or milestone, but with
a confession. He confesses something that didn’t go as
planned for the business in the previous year. Why would
he do this? He’s Warren fucking Buffet. He could brag
about any number of accomplishments in any year.


By offering a confession, he’s being honest. When you
read something like that, you think, “He may be really
successful, but he’s also honest. He admitted a mistake.
We all make mistakes.” Making a confession to someone
brings them closer to you, and can often turn an adversary
into an ally.



SHARING A SECRET

Back in the early nineteenth century, Napoleon Bonaparte
was the face of power in France. But it was his right-hand
man, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, who
proved invaluable. Talleyrand was an expert conversa-
tionalist who could get others to reveal their feelings and
ideas without even knowing it.


                             H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   221
He had one trick in particular that he used repeatedly to his
benefit. When with another foreign diplomat or high-rank-
ing official in private, Talleyrand would often blurt out what
would appear to be a big secret. It was usually just some-
thing he made up, but he would pay attention to the other
people’s reactions, which would give him information.


The obvious benefit was that he could gauge reactions,
but there was also a secondary benefit: people would feel
compelled to share a secret with him. Sharing secrets
is an incredible way to build rapport. Talleyrand was a
politician, one that even those closest to him didn’t fully
trust. I don’t want you to go around lying to everyone you
meet, just to learn some of their secrets.


Just keep a few personal secrets about yourself at the ready
for whenever you might need them. This is why people
bond so easily over gossip.



MERE-EXPOSURE EFFECT

When humans are simply exposed to something more
than a few times, they tend to start responding more posi-
tively to it. “Familiarity breeds contempt” is an old saying,
but it’s only proven true after hundreds and hundreds of
repeated exposures. If the exposure isn’t overwhelming,
studies show that makes us like something more.


222   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
A study was done that showed people normal pictures
of themselves, as well as reverse images of themselves.
Almost unanimously, people preferred the reverse image.
Why is that? We’ve all seen ourselves in the mirror our
entire lives, so that’s the image of ourselves we’ve seen
most often. It’s the mere-exposure effect.


So how can you apply this to your own high-status rapport
control? One of the best ways is through writing letters.
You remember what those look like, right? Not an e-mail,
not a text, not a Snapchat—a handwritten letter that you
physically mail to someone. There’s a deeper impact when
someone receives a letter, so you’ll find yourself on their
mind in a meaningful way, instead of in their computer’s
trash can.


John F. Kennedy understood the importance of letters
better than most. People close to him said, “While the
rest of the world carries on senseless conversations, JFK
would be writing letters.” Who was he writing them to? To
all kinds of people, some of whom you’d expect more than
others. He understood it was important to be constantly
remain on people’s radars by keeping in touch with them.
If someone isn’t exposed to you on a consistent basis, you
can still cultivate the power of the mere-exposure effect.




                           H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   223
RECOGNITION

There is almost no better way to light someone up and
truly make them want to respond to you than by simply
recognizing them uniquely. No one does this anymore.
It’s a basic communication skill that Dale Carnegie was
teaching 100 years ago, but it’s almost extinct now. You
can help change that.


When you meet someone, aside from filing away their
name and face, make a mental note of one unique thing
about them. I try to do this whenever I meet someone,
so that the next time we see each other, I can ask them
about that specific thing.


This simple gesture will illustrate to the other person that
they were memorable to you, which is a genuine way of
recognizing them.



RECIPROCITY

We do unto others what they do unto us. That’s the defi-
nition of reciprocity, and it goes for both positive and
negative interactions. If someone does a disservice to
you, you’re going to feel compelled to give them a taste of
disservice back. But if someone does something uniquely
kind to you, you’re going to want to do the same for them.



2 24   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
When you’re using reciprocity to energize and accelerate
rapport, one of the most effective methods is gift-giving. I
don’t mean just going down to the local store and buying
a Starbucks gift card with no emotion or thought. Instead,
combine recognition and reciprocity.


As an example, let’s say I meet someone and the one
unique fact I save in my mind about them is that they
absolutely love Dungeons & Dragons. They can’t get
enough of it, right? Instead of a generic Starbucks gift
card, I get them a rare Dungeons & Dragons collectible.
That’s going to create a lot more reciprocity.



BREAK RAPPORT

Full disclosure: this seventh and final rapport energizer
is an advanced one. Make yourself comfortable with the
first six we’ve highlighted before you try this one.


Breaking rapport, or at least the idea of breaking rapport,
seems counterintuitive, right? We’ve spent all this time
focusing on ways to build rapport, so why would we ever
want to break it? Interestingly enough, it’s actually the
fastest way to build rapport with someone.


Breaking rapport is simply teasing someone, or making
fun of them in a friendly way. It might seem like you’re


                           H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   225
pushing them away, but when it’s done in a playful way,
it actually builds rapport. Everyone has friends like this.
Guys love to give each other shit. Girls do, too. Think about
your best friends. Do you have inside jokes with them? Of
course. Do you make fun of each other but have a good
time doing it? Absolutely.


If you meet someone and within a minute you’re making
fun of each other in a playful way, what happens to your
sense of rapport with that person? They are embodying
the traits, signals, and characteristics of the people you’ve
been closest with your entire life, so you begin to feel that
same rapport with them. This is one of the high-level
rapport hacks we teach at my seminars, and the results
are consistently stunning.



WHAT-IFS

Let’s review some of the common questions I get asked
about high-status rapport control before we wrap up
this chapter.



WE’RE DISAGREEING

Look, sometimes you’re going to do everything you can
to avoid resistance and create a relationship of respon-
siveness, yet you and the other person will still disagree.


226   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Don’t sweat it. It’s actually great, because you can easily
reframe the entire situation.


All of you have to do is say something like, “You know
what? We disagree so much, we’re like Starsky and Hutch.”
Or if you’re a woman talking with another woman, some-
thing like, “We disagree about everything. We’re just like
Lucy and Ethel.” Boom—it changes the entire dynamic.


You can use any well-known character tandem, as long as
they were great friends who argued a lot. It will reframe
the rapport in your friend’s mind as the same thing.



I’M TRYING TOO HARD

If you get the sense that you’re trying too hard for rapport
and it’s not working, don’t panic. In this situation, the first
step is to put all of the rapport control energizers on hold
for the time being.


Instead, you’re going to first take a deep breath and lean
back. Remember, when in doubt, lean out. Focus on
your own body language. Just taking yourself out of the
moment briefly with a few deep breaths will help you
develop rapport more effectively than anything else you
can say or do in that situation. Just lean back and let the
situation come to you.


                             H I G H - S TAT U S R A P P O R T C O N T R O L ·   227
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT

Rapport control, like every other high-status signal in
this book, is a muscle that you’ll have to train. You’ve
learned the behaviors and signs of rapport, as well as the
energizers that can accelerate rapport control.


Now, you’ve just got to practice them. Remember not
to spray all seven energizers across conversations like a
machine gun. Just focus on one or two, and pepper them
in when talking to someone. If you do that, you’re going
to have the power to rapidly build rapport with anyone
in no time.


When you combine that skill with high-status charisma,
the next high-status trait, the results are outstanding—
enough to make your competition bright green with envy.




228   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                  Chapter Eleven



  HIGH-STATUS CHARISMA

When the first iPhone was being built, the original plan
called for it to have a plastic screen like the iPod. But
Steve Jobs wanted something more elegant than plastic.
He wanted glass. Of course, it had to be strong glass that
wouldn’t scratch or crack easily. He put the word out and
eventually got connected with a CEO who supposedly
had just the type of glass Jobs was looking for.


After a series of back-and-forth periods of phone tag, Jobs
finally invited the CEO of Corning, Inc., out to Apple
headquarters to meet with him. The CEO told Jobs about a
new type of glass that had taken decades to develop, called
Gorilla Glass. Up until that point, there had been no need
or use for glass that strong. Jobs remained unconvinced, so
he started explain to the CEO how glass is made. As Jobs


                                  H I G H - S T A T U S C H A R I S M A ! · ! 229
was drawing away on a whiteboard, the CEO started to
get annoyed. Finally, he stood up and said, “Can you shut
up for a second and just let me teach you some science?”


Jobs was taken aback. No one spoke to him that way. As
he slumped back in his chair, the Corning CEO took his
place at the whiteboard and began a lengthy tutorial on
the chemistry behind glass. Once he finished, the first
thing Jobs said was, “I want as much Gorilla Glass as you
can possibly make in the next six months.”


“We don’t have the capacity for that,” the CEO replied.
“None of our plants even make the glass right now.” Jobs
didn’t panic. He didn’t get angry or discouraged. He
simply replied, “Don’t be afraid. You can do this. Get
your mind around it. You can do this.” Of course, the
rest is history: the glass is produced, the iPhone explodes
into a billion-dollar industry, and the way our species
communicates is forever changed. But it never would
have happened if Jobs hadn’t had high-status charisma.


What defines charisma? What is it? Ask twenty people and
you’ll probably get twenty different answers. Allow me to
simplify it. What creates charisma is a sense of certainty.
Whether it’s a guy who’s the life of the party, a historical
figure who led a revolution, a speaker onstage getting the
crowd fired up, or the coach of a championship team, the


230   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
common thread among all of them is a sense of certainty.
They might not always be right, but they never hesitate.
Other people feed on this. In a world full of drifting leaves,
the charismatic man or woman is the wind.


If Jobs had hesitated at all during his interactions with
Corning, Inc., it never would have happened. What if he
had said, “Um, OK, what about nine months instead of
six? Or is there another option? Maybe something similar
to Gorilla Glass?”



TRAITS OF CHARISMA

If you were writing up the recipe for high-status charisma,
there are three main ingredients that are needed for the
dish: certainty in motion, decisiveness, and passion. Let’s
look at each one.



CERTAINTY IN MOTION

Think of three charismatic people you know. They can
be close friends, coworkers, even celebrities. It doesn’t
matter. Do you consider any of them to be hesitant people?
Of course not. I don’t even need to know the three people
you thought of, and I still know the answer is, without a
doubt, no.



                                    H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   231
Certainty in motion means you are doing things on the
path to your high-status destiny. Everything you do has a
certainty to it. When you’re in a business meeting, you’re
certain. When you’re having dinner with someone, you’re
certain. You are certain in the things you’re saying in these
different settings, because you know you’re on a des-
tined path. Other people not only sense that, but they’re
attracted to it.


I was building a company a few years ago that no longer
exists now. That along should give you an idea of where
this story is heading. Over the years, any company or
business endeavor I’ve had that was successful came
from an idea that I was certain about. The ones where I
said, “This is a great idea. I am certain about this. We’ll
figure it out as we go, but let’s just get this thing fucking
started.” Those ideas always thrive.


The ones that fail, like the particular company I just men-
tioned, come from the less certain ideas. Instead of being
raring to go, I say to myself, “This is a great idea, but let’s
make sure we take our time in the planning process, secure
the capital, and do the research.” Those ideas are fucked
from the start, so it’s no surprise that six months after
starting the company, I shut it down. By approaching
that company with hesitation, I forgot what people actu-
ally value—certainty. People don’t care that everything


232   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
is 100 percent perfect all the time. They don’t want a
mistake-free world. What they actually want from their
leaders is certainty.


There was a fascinating study done on certainty using, all
of things, a jaywalker. They had a guy stand at a busy street
corner full of other pedestrians. The idea was to have him
jaywalk and observe the reactions of other people. In the
first setup, the guy would stand at the corner and, when
no cars were coming, would look once quickly to make
sure it was safe, and then walk certainly and confidently
across the street.


In the second setup, the guy did the same thing except he
hesitated. He put his foot out into the street, but pulled it
back. He looked right, then left, then right again. After a
few seconds, he finally walked across. The results of the
study were pretty staggering. Seven times as many people
followed the guy in the certain, confident walk of the first
setup as opposed to the hesitant walk of the second setup.


I’ll share another quick story to highlight the power of
certainty in motion. Before Jerry Weintraub was the Emmy
Award-winning legend he is now, he tried to get in touch
with an actor who was starring in a Broadway play. At that
point, Weintraub didn’t have the credentials to be able
to walk freely backstage, so he had to get a little creative.


                                   H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   233
After he snuck his way backstage, he still had to get past
security to get to the area where the dressing rooms for the
actors and actresses were located. As he looked around
for something to help his cause, he noticed a clipboard.
Perfect.


As Weintraub walked up to the security guard, his plan
began to take shape. “How’s your night going?” Weintraub
asked while he slapped him on the shoulder. “Good,” he
replied. “How was your training? Has your training been
adequate to the tasks that you’ve been assigned here?”
Weintraub continued. “Yeah, I was trained pretty well,”
the guy replied. “Good to hear. We’ve had our eye on
you and we think you’re doing a great job. Keep it up.”
Weintraub slapped him on the shoulder again and walked
right by. It’s a funny story, but it so clearly illustrates the
power of certainty. Weintraub later said, “If you act like
you know exactly what you’re doing, people won’t really
bother you.”


I was teaching one of my higher-end workshops in 2016 for
about thirty guys. The tickets were $2,500 apiece for the
two-day workshop, and we covered a lot of great stuff. But
a few guys approached me toward the end of the second
day during a break with a proposal: eight of them were
going to pay me $5,000 each for an additional day of just
straight questions and answers. My initial reaction was


234   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
shock. I’m the one that was supposed to be making the
offers, not them. I just thought it was so cool these guys
pitched that idea, but I didn’t act uncertain about it. I
practiced my high-status state control, remained calm,
considered the offer and came back to the guys with my
conditions for the Q and A.


One of my mentors taught me the importance of acting
as if there are no limits to your abilities. When you have
certainty in motion, you get a positive response. Your brain
remembers that. If you haven’t been acting as if there
are no limits to your abilities, it’s not surprising that you
haven’t become the most charismatic version of yourself
yet. You’ve just been training in the wrong direction, but
it’s easy to flip that.



DECISIVENESS

Let’s be honest—today’s world is fucking flooded with
indecisive people. Nothing screams “don’t trust or follow
me” more than indecisiveness. There’s a great quote that
captures this idea: “If you want no one to ever say a single
bad word about you, say nothing, do nothing, and be
nothing.” Indecisive people, by not making a decision and
not being certain, avoid all possible negative outcomes
and, by default, all responsibility.



                                   H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   235
A charismatic person is going to make an immediate deci-
sion that will sometimes be right. When people take their
time to gather data or write out a pros and cons list, do
you trust them? No, because in your mind you’re thinking,
“They weren’t sure of their decision. How can I be sure
of them?” People value quick, decisive decision-making.


Everyone knows about Julius Caesar, but not everyone
knows that he was kidnapped by a band of pirates in his
youth. How would most people handle that situation? How
would you handle being a chained prisoner of a team of
sword-wielding pirates, with no Instagram or Snapchat
to send out a distress signal? Caesar thrived in it because
he was brash and decisive. As the pirates debated among
themselves how much to hold Caesar for ransom, Caesar
implored them to ask for at least three times more. The
pirates took a liking to such boldness and, as they got
to know him more, developed an appreciation for him.
Caesar made a point of telling them, “When I get free, I
just want you to know that I’m going to commandeer a
ship, find you, and kill each and every one of you.” The
pirates all had a great laugh at this, but the last laugh was
on them. Caesar’s ransom was eventually paid, he was
freed, and, upon returning to Rome, he got a ship and
pursued the pirates. When he found them, he crucified
all of them. Now that’s an extreme form of decisiveness,
but it damn sure was charismatic.


236   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Another great story on decisiveness comes from one of
my personal mentors, Dan Peña. He’s known as the “50
Billion Dollar Man” because between him and the people
he’s mentored, they’ve created more than $50 billion of
value over the years. Peña’s most successful student, at
least from a financial perspective, is Rick Scott, the gover-
nor of Florida. The two first met back in 1993 when Scott
was a transaction lawyer for Peña. After a while, Scott
noticed the sheer amount of money Peña was making on
all of his deals, and realized he was getting the short end
of the stick. Scott asked him how he could make similar
money, so Peña suggested going into health care and laid
out a plan how to do it. Scott didn’t stop to consider it, or
weigh his options, or put together a pro-con list. He walked
out of the room and dove into the plan headfirst. A few
years later, Scott owned a health care company worth $17
billion. He was certainty in motion and he was decisive.



PASSION

Everyone knows that being passionate is important. This
isn’t groundbreaking information, yet how few people do
you know who swim daily in the deep end of their passion?
We’ve all been told our entire lives to have passion, yet no
one cultivates their passion. I have people come up to me
every day and thank me for something I said or did that
changed their lives by lighting the fire deep inside of them.


                                   H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   237
Many confide that, before that crucial moment in their
life, they had been a drifting leaf instead of a purposeful,
forceful wind. Why do so many choose to stay treading
in the shallow waters of their life? One major reason is
they lack a high-status destiny. They might have a path in
life that was given to them by someone else, whether it’s
parents, friends, or family. We all invest so much more in
the things we choose for ourselves. You know what you
love and what excites you, so if you’ve built a life around
something else, you’re going to drift and you’re going to
lack interest.


The other major reason people drift through life is because
they’re easily distracted. Since they don’t like what they’re
doing, every little thing they encounter in life becomes a
distraction. Calling it a distraction at this point is almost
a misnomer, since many are actively looking to be dis-
tracted by something…anything. Funny story—technology
was actually created to make lives easier. The idea was
to take menial jobs and tasks out of human hands, so we
could enjoy more recreation, leisure, and travel. Well,
that’s definitely not happened. Technology has stressed
people out more than ever. It distracts us and has ruined
our attention spans. It’s a nightmare. Worst of all, people
live in environments that are full of distractions—cell
phones, TVs, music streaming, you name it. So many
people are drifting and distracted, instead of passionate.


238   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
When we meet someone who is truly passionate, we’re
like, “Holy shit! Who are you and where have you been
all my life?” We find that quality immediately attractive.
We’re drawn to it. My challenge to you is this: Will you
become that rare person, that one in a thousand, who
isn’t dabbling and distracted but instead is attacking their
passion and purpose with every ounce of vigor you have?
I strongly encourage you to say yes now, and give yourself
this life-changing gift.


Leonardo DiCaprio is a perfect example of someone
who’s incredibly passionate about what he does. People
who don’t understand that will say he’s lucky, or he was
just born to be an actor, but we know that’s not true. His
longtime friend, Tobey Maguire, learned this at a young
age. Before DiCaprio became a living legend, he was an
up-and-coming actor just like Maguire, and the two would
often compete for the same roles. One day, DiCaprio was
in the car with his mom when he spotted Maguire standing
off to the side of a street. He had his mom stop the car.


“Hey man, you’re Tobey, right?” he said. “Yeah, hey. You’re
Leo, right?” Maguire replied. “Come on, get in. Let’s go,”
DiCaprio said. Maguire was a little hesitant. “What do you
mean?” “You’re my friend. Let’s go get some ice cream
or something.”



                                   H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   239
Maguire learned early on that when DiCaprio decides
someone is going to be his friend, that’s the end of the
story. He decides who his friends will be. That’s how he
operates. DiCaprio is not a lucky success story. He’s a
man of purpose and passion.


Here’s the beautiful thing about passion: it can take any
form. Fantasy football, brush painting, online coding—
anything that truly crosses the threshold from an interest
to a healthy obsession can become your passion.



BUILDING HIGH-STATUS CHARISMA

I know I sound like a broken record at this point, but I’m
going to say it again anyway: charisma, like all of the other
high-status signals in this book, is a muscle that you must
train. There are three specific exercises that I want you
start practicing.



CHARISMA MODE

For thirty seconds at a time, I want you to turn up the juices
and go into what you consider to be your most charismatic
mode. Be as certain, decisive, and passionate as you can
be for thirty seconds, whether you’re walking down the
street, ordering food at a restaurant, or just walking to
the break room at work.


240   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Do this three separate times today. Don’t put it off until
tomorrow or next week. As always, take note of the
responses you get from people. I promise you’re going
to find they respond to you better than they ever have
before. You’ll start to build charisma momentum.



MAGNIFY POSITIVITY

One thing all charismatic people have in common is an
ability to forget negativity and magnify positivity. My
friend, the “Three-Foot Giant” Sean Stephenson, has said
that you should only listen to predictions that empower
you. I agree. I remember one of my first organized basket-
ball games, when I was fourteen years old. I made seven
three-pointers in the game, which was more than I had
ever made before. After the game, I looked at the stat
sheet and saw I finished seven-for-seventeen on three-
point shot attempts. In my mind, I had only taken—and
made—seven three-pointers. My brain had literally for-
gotten the other ten misses. I only remembered the ball
going through the net.


Moving forward, I want you to start saving the compli-
ments you get. A lot of times people brush off compliments.
Don’t do that. A compliment is a gift for your charisma.
Take it, save it, and let it feed your already-growing
charisma.


                                  H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   241
For this exercise, I want you to write down ten specific
compliments that you remember receiving. Keep a run-
ning list somewhere that you can readily access any time
you’re not feeling great. Each time you read a compliment,
it will provide a nice little confidence boost.



LIST OF LIKES

You’ll need to set aside some time for this, but don’t skip
it just because it takes a little longer. You’re going to build
another list, preferably in the same journal or document
as the compliment list, but this time of fifty things you
like about yourself.


This will be challenging for some. The media trains us to
focus on what’s wrong, not what’s right or what’s positive.
The good news is that you and I both know you already
understand how to focus on one thing more than another.
Now, we’re going to change that focus to something far
more interesting—the best things about you.



CHARISMA IS CONTROLLABLE

Charisma is widely misunderstood. Most people think
it’s some kind of ungraspable, indefinable quality. That’s
bullshit. You now know the qualities and traits that
define charisma. You know how to start building your


242   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
own high-status charisma. You know how to behavior-
ally demonstrate charisma, not just talk about it. You’ve
got this.


There are two high-status traits we haven’t stripped down
to their bare essence yet, and these two traits have the
power to unlock enormous results in your life that you
can’t even begin to imagine. You think you’re ready for
such transformation? Turn the page and I’ll show you the
hard core steps and secrets most teachers and gurus are
too afraid or ashamed to share with you.




                                 H I G H - S TAT U S C H A R I S M A ·   243
                  C h a p t e r Tw e l v e



       HIGH-STATUS STYLE

I’ve mentioned the 50 Billion Dollar Man Dan Peña a
few times in this book, but let me tell you a funny story
about the first time he and I sat down to talk. I was at his
eight-day seminar in the summer of 2015 at his castle in
Scotland. That’s right—the guy lives in a castle. Not just
a really big, nice house with twenty-eight rooms that he
calls his “castle,” but a real-life, honest-to-God castle.


When you walk onto the property, the first thing you see
is the eighteen-hole golf course he built on the grounds.
Then you hear the roar of an engine. What type of car,
you ask? Hard to say. It could be his Ferrari, or maybe
his Aston Martin, or perhaps his Rolls-Royce. It depends
on the day. As you make your walk across the property,
which takes twenty-five minutes to cover, you begin to


                                      H I G H - S T A T U S S T Y L E ! · ! 245
feel a sense of wealth and opportunity flow through you.
It’s an inspiring place.


As Dan and I sat down for our meeting, I told him about
the goals for my company and what I hoped to accomplish
in the future. The conversation was going well until he
got to my suit. “Wait. When you go on stage, traveling,
speaking, coaching, you’re wearing that suit?” For once
in my life, I didn’t know what to say.


Quick side note—suits were required for the entire eight-
day seminar, except for a short break each day, which I
usually spent at the gym working out. For me, the work
attire of choice for the last few years has been board shorts
and flip-flops. Shit, I don’t even wear a shirt most of the
time because I work from my house, and I want to be
comfortable. Wearing a suit all day, every day was unusual
for me. In preparation for Peña’s seminar, I went out and
got what I thought was a sharp, tailored Hugo Boss suit
for like $2,500. He wasn’t impressed.


“That’s really what you wear?” Peña asked. “Yeah, of
course,” I said. “Why? Is something wrong?” “Yeah,
everything’s wrong,” he replied. “You can’t wear that
suit.” Again, I asked him why—I had to get the most out
of my one-on-one time with him.



246   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
“You only get one shot at a first impression. I assure you,
when people see you in that suit, they’re not going to be
impressed. What you need is a suit that demonstrates
your success. You need a Tom Ford suit. It’ll cost you five
or six grand, and people will respond to you completely
differently. If they’re already responding well, you have
no idea how much easier it’ll get with the right suit.”


Interesting, I thought. Then I asked him if anything else
needed to change. “Take your earrings out and take the
bracelets off. You look like you smoke pot.”


“And,” he added, “get a fucking haircut.” The great Dan
Peña does not pull punches, and I love him for that. I
agreed with all of his suggestions…except the haircut.
That’s just one thing I’ll never budge on.



WHY STYLE MATTERS

Most people seem to understand that style is important,
but it’s amazing how many people just don’t put any con-
scious thought into how they will present themselves to
the world. I read a quote recently that went, “A really
high-class, tailored suit on a man is the equivalent of a
tight black dress and six-inch heels on a woman.” Both
of those examples provide powerful mental images, but
keep in mind that there’s more to style than just clothing.


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   247
You have control over the first impression you make on
others with your style, and you don’t have to be stuck in
what you used to wear or what you see other people wear-
ing. There’s a very specific, three-step path I want you to
take with high-status style. First, high-status style capti-
vates attention. Second, after captivating that attention,
it signals high status. And third, it makes you unforgetta-
ble. It has to happen in that order. If you can’t captivate
someone’s attention, you won’t have a chance to signal
your high status or become unforgettable.



THE POWER OF STYLE

If your local mall has an Apple Store, I already know it’s
the busiest of all the stores in it. People used to go to malls
for clothes. Now they go for the Apple Store. The Apple
Store can trace its roots all the way back to 1970s and
Mike Markkula, one of the early investors in Apple. Mark-
kula wrote a short, one-page paper that highlighted the
three principles for the company’s marketing philosophy:
empathy, focus, impute. The goal was to connect with
the customer (empathy), eliminate all other distractions
(focus), and leave the biggest impact possible (impute).


In his paper, Markkula wrote, “People do judge a book
by its cover. We may have the best products and soft-
ware, but if we present in a slipshod manner, they’ll be


248   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
perceived as slipshod. If we present them in a creative,
professional manner, then we will impute the desired
qualities inside the experience of the user.” That stuck
with Steve Jobs for a long time. He spent months and
months building different prototypes for the store before
it ever saw the inside of a mall. He would build practice
models inside a private garage near Apple headquarters
and invite people like Larry Ellison, the billionaire CEO
of Oracle, to come visit and offer advice. It was critical
to Jobs that the store impute the right message. He knew
the store would “become the most powerful physical
expression of the brand.”


We’ve seen the power of first impression throughout
history. Renaissance philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli
wrote in his treatise The Prince, “Men judge by their eyes.”
Baltasar Gracián, a Spanish philosopher and writer, once
wrote, “The truth is generally seen, rarely heard.” In
today’s society, attention spans are shorter than ever, so
you don’t really have the time to set the right impression
over a dinner or happy-hour drinks. You will be judged
on appearance, and it will happen in a matter of seconds.


Why do first impressions weigh so heavily? One reason
is something called the halo effect. What this means is
that, when you make a high-status great first impression
on someone, they attribute many other positive qualities


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   249
to you, even if you haven’t demonstrated any of them.
The halo effect is more commonly applied in terms of
physical attractiveness, where more physically attractive
people are seen as smarter, stronger, and more success-
ful. Halo effect studies are fascinating. One was done
on Canadian federal elections, and it found that attrac-
tive candidates received two-and-a-half more votes than
unattractive candidates. When they asked voters about
this, almost three-quarters of them denied that physical
appearance had any bearing on their vote. The halo effect
was there, but they didn’t even realize it was influencing
their thoughts and behaviors.


The other reason is perseverance of the first impression.
There’s something called belief perseverance, which sug-
gests that even in the face of conflicting evidence, people
don’t change their first impressions. If we ever do change
our minds and decide to reevaluate someone, we con-
sider that an exception to the rule. We mostly refuse to
change our initial impression of someone because that
would mean admitting we were wrong, and we don’t like
doing that. First impressions matter: you’ve got to make
a good one.



CATCHING ATTENTION

The first step in high-status style is catching someone’s


2 50   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
attention. If you can’t do that, you won’t be able to signal
your high status or make yourself unforgettable. Without
attention, there’s no influence, and without influence,
there’s no opportunity to build.


Remember when Björk showed up at the 2001 Academy
Awards wearing a swan around her neck? That’s a prime
example of trying too hard to captivate attention. If you
find yourself wearing a swan dress, you’ve gone too far.
So how do you gain attention without trying too hard?
Simple—the incongruity theory.


The incongruity theory means you’re going to be incongru-
ent, or incompatible, with a specific environment, and that
will make you stand out. If you walked into a restaurant
and saw nine people wearing blue shirts and one person
wearing a red shirt, who would stand out? The person
in red, right? You just have to be slightly incongruent
with your environment. If there’s a particular bar you fre-
quent, take note of how people dress. Figure out how you
can dress differently to stand out, while not going to the
extreme of wearing a swan around your neck. If everyone
is wearing a cheap suit, try to invest in a nicer one. Per-
sonally, I never wear blue jeans. They’re uncomfortable
and, honestly, I don’t like how they look. Everyone else
in the world wears jeans though, so I get a few benefits
by choosing not to wear them. I’m captivating attention


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   251
by being slightly incongruent, and I’m happy because
board shorts are way more comfortable.


Someone who totally got incongruity theory was David
Ogilvy, the advertising executive from the late twentieth cen-
tury who served as the inspiration for Mad Men’s Don Draper.
Before he became the king of Madison Avenue, Ogilvy was
originally from Scotland. He became known around New
York City for wearing a full-length, flowing black cape with
a scarlet lining around his suit. Sometimes he wore kilts to
black tie events. He owned one of the first Rolls-Royces in
New York City. The guy just embraced incongruity theory.



ATTENTION ENVIRONMENTS

Before you move on to signaling high status, I want you
to do two quick exercises.



EXERCISE NO. 1

Ask yourself what the three most important environments
in your life now, or potentially in the future, are. So, to use
myself as an example, I could say onstage, my offices, and
the gym as my three most important environments. For
someone else it could be work, networking events, and
a specific bar. The answer will be different for everyone.
Think of your three most important environments.


2 52   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
EXERCISE NO. 2

What is the one thing in each of those environments that
mostly everyone wears that isn’t necessary or could be
made better? Take your three answers and, boom, you
have a new rule for each of your environments. If your
answer for the first environment is blue jeans, then never
wear blue jeans in that environment ever again. Plus, now
you have the fun of picking out something new and more
badass to wear.



SIGNAL HIGH STATUS

Branding is a powerful tool. You know this if you’ve ever
taken an advertising class, or even just watched TV com-
mercials. Apple’s financial boom wasn’t directly tied to
iPod sales in the early 2000s. But because people loved
the experience, packaging, and performance of the iPod,
it led to increased sales across Apple’s entire product line.
Along the same lines, when the sandwich chain Subway
changed its slogan to “Eat Fresh,” it rebranded itself
as a healthy dining option. The reality is that Subway
still serves chicken bacon ranch, meatball, and all kinds
of other shit that’s not healthy at all, but the branding
says otherwise.


We can generate the same effect with you. If you can make
a high-status first impression with your own personal


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   253
branding, people are going to attribute other positive
qualities to you as well. Think about this way: Remember
the first day of school you ever went to? Everyone got their
own cubby with their name on it for storing your jacket,
backpack, and anything else under the sun. Guess what?
Our brains work just like cubbies, storing different infor-
mation into different areas. When we make an assessment
of someone’s first impression, we’re deciding whether
they’re high, neutral, or low status; someone you want
to date or sleep with; and on and on and on. We have
all these different cubbies, and again, because of belief
perseverance, once something goes in a certain cubby,
it usually stays there. The goal is to make sure your first
impression goes in the correct cubby.


How can you do that? Start by looking to celebrities. Actu-
ally, let me clarify: start by looking at celebrities. They’re
constantly surrounded by a team of experts whose only
job is to make them look amazing.



SIGNALING EXERCISE NO. 1

Start by answering this question: Who are three celebrities
that have a style you love? It can actors, actresses, online
personalities—it’s up to you. If you love their style, put
them on the list.



2 54   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
SIGNALING EXERCISE NO. 2

Which of the three celebrities on your list screams “high
status” to you? All of them might seem high status to you,
but which one just is the most powerful?



SIGNALING EXERCISE NO. 3

What do their wardrobes and outfits usually include? List
everything you’ve seen them wear. Photos can certainly
help with that. Follow up that list with this question: What
do their wardrobes and outfits not include?


If you combine the results of these three quick exercises,
you’ll now have a new style to model. For instance, if
you’re a guy, and you chose Ryan Gosling as your celebrity
who screams “high status,” and you make a list of every-
thing he wears after doing some online research, you’ll
have a list of the things you will and won’t wear. That list
becomes your brand.


There’s no reason you have to be stuck as the kind of
person your parents or teachers said you were when
you were younger. You have the power to decide who
you’re going to be. Are you going to let other people
determine what kind of first impression you’re going to
make on the rest of the world for the rest of your damn
life? Or are you going to let your own purpose, path, and


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   255
goals in life determine what kind of first impression
you’ll make?



BECOMING UNFORGETTABLE

There are two big keys to making sure no one forgets you.
The first is simply making sure your clothing fits you well.
Big, baggy, wrinkled clothes will not be remembered.
Wear clothes that contour positively to the size and shape
of your body. The trick to ensuring this is getting all of
your clothing tailored. I mean it—all of your clothing,
even T-shirts. It will make a $10 white V-neck look like
a $100 T-shirt. No one tailors all of their clothing, so if
you do, you’ll stand out as incongruent.


The second key is imprint triggers, which are little acces-
sories that give you an added appeal to your look. They
shouldn’t be over the top, like Chris Tucker’s blonde hair
in The Fifth Element, but they shouldn’t be too subtle,
either. The rule of thumb is that when someone looks
at you for three or four seconds, they should be able to
see the imprint. You should have two or three imprint
triggers on you at a given time. Remember the saying,
“What stands out, gets in.”


There’s also an interesting phenomenon known as the
availability-misweighting bias, which basically states that


2 56   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
we give more value to things that are more easily recalled
by our memory. With high-status style, we’re going to
make you unforgettable, so that when you interview for
that job with nine other candidates, you’ll be the one the
boss remembers later that night when they go home.



UNFORGETTABLE EXERCISE NO. 1

What accessories does your celebrity model wear? Make
a list of everything you see. It will give you an idea of how
to make your own style unforgettable.



UNFORGETTABLE EXERCISE NO. 2

What accessory do you really like that you’ve seen some-
one else wear, but could never picture yourself wearing?
Don’t worry. You don’t actually have to wear it. I just
want your brain to start thinking outside its normal scope.
Get out of the comfort zone you’ve had yourself stuck in
for years.



YOUR NEXT STEPS

Here’s what I want you to do: stop reading and go get what
you need to test out your new high-status style. Don’t put
it off until the weekend. Get it done today. It all starts
with a baby step. Maybe it’s ordering something online,


                                       H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   257
or changing your facial hair, or simply getting rid of any
existing clothes in your closet you never wear. I don’t
expect you to go out and buy an entire new wardrobe in
one shopping trip, but get enough to at least test out one
new outfit. As always, observe and notice how people
respond to you differently.


The first impression you will make will be so much
more powerful. People of the opposite sex will respond
to you more easily. People at work will start to follow
your lead and respect you more. Even your family and
friends will truly take your advice to heart. Style is one
of the most important high-status signals, so don’t waste
this opportunity.



BALLIN’ ON A BUDGET

Let me make this absolutely clear: high-status style has
nothing to do with how much money you make. I’m fortu-
nate because I can comfortably afford more expensive suits,
but you build an entire new wardrobe for next to nothing.


H&M and Forever 21 are the best options if you’re in the
younger demographic. If you feel like those stores aren’t
for you, there are two other options—vintage and thrift
stores, and the Internet. Thrift stores are a gold mine. Let’s
say you find a jacket that sold for $500 twenty years ago,


2 58   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
but is now available for $10. It will cost less than $5 to
get it professionally tailored. You can build an incredibly
wardrobe for less than $100 simply by buying items at
thrift stores and getting them tailored.


The Internet is always a viable option as well. Sales pop
up seemingly every hour, every day. Two of the better
sites I’ve seen are Jack Threads for men and Poshmark for
women. You can also get a serious jump start on rebuilding
your wardrobe by simply getting rid of old clothes you
don’t want anymore.


Keep in mind the specific traits of high-status style we
highlighted in this chapter, and work off of your answers to
the exercise questions. You’ll be able to build a new ward-
robe and a new brand of style that reflects your high-status
self in no time—and for minimal money.


That’s a pretty good combination, isn’t it? Damn right. And
it brings us to the twelfth and final honest signal: envi-
ronment. Have you ever been surrounded by people who
bring you down and wished there was just more energy
and positivity around you? Maybe you even began to
imagine how much further along you’d be if you’d had
surroundings that truly supported you and your goals.
What if I told you that getting that type of environment
only takes three simple steps?


                                      H I G H - S TAT U S S T Y L E ·   259
What comes next isn’t a chapter, but a workshop—a work-
shop that you’ll look back on one day and think, “That
was the day my eyes truly opened to what I was capable
of. That was the day I made the decision to get the life
of my dreams, and my goodness, I’m so glad I did.” Let
the games begin.




260   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                 Chapter Thirteen



              HIGH-STATUS
              ENVIRONMENT

Think about this particular scenario I’m about to describe
and whether you’ve found yourself in it before. You’ve set
a goal for yourself to go to the gym every day after work,
let’s say around 6:00 p.m. You’ve been doing pretty well
for the first few days, but on the fourth day someone—a
significant other, a roommate, anyone—stops you and says,
“Come on, skip the gym. We haven’t hung out like normal
in a while. Let’s watch Netflix or Game of Thrones.” What
would you do in that situation? Don’t tell me what I want to
hear. Be honest with yourself. If you’re like most, the temp-
tation will suffocate your will power, and you’ll dissolve
the developing gym habit. But hey, at least you’d know
what was going on with the Targaryens and Lannisters!


                                H I G H - S T A T U S E N V I R O N M E N T ! · ! 261
It’s understandable. Most people in that situation would
think the other person is just being a good friend seeking
company. Here’s the harsh reality. While they might be a
good person, their actions are creating an environment
that is pulling you down. You might have every intention
of getting into the shape you want, yet their presence has
made it harder for you to do that. That’s an environment
that feeds low-status behaviors and habits. A high-status
environment is one that raises you up and doesn’t pull
you down.


Can you imagine all the different areas of your life where
you would be stronger, faster, quicker, smarter, and better
if you were in an environment that raised you up and chal-
lenged you constantly? How many of your ideas would
have set sail without stormy weather looming overhead?
Most people have forgotten that they can actually make
this happen for themselves. They can design an envi-
ronment that doesn’t have negativity, or complaining,
or people who invalidate their intentions to rise, grow,
and evolve as a human being. Imagine the freedom and
power you’d feel to pursue your dreams with no restraints.


When it comes to environment, there are three types of
people: drifters, victims, and leaders.




262   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
 • Drifters allow their environment to take shape by
   accident. There’s no purpose, rhyme, or reason to
   the environment they choose to live in, so whatever
   happens is fine with them.
 • Victims have things in their environment that,
   consciously and unconsciously, prime and trigger
   negative emotions like anger, frustration, worry
   and depression. They’ve either on purpose or by
   accident allowed an environment to take shape
   around them that pulls them down.
 • Leaders, on the other hand, deliberately and con-
   sciously create an environment that raises them up.
   It has things that prime and trigger positive, joyful,
   resourceful, and excited responses. The fact that
   you’ve made it this far in the book means you’re
   already a leader. Now it’s time for us to build an
   environment for you that represents that.



LAW OF ENVIRONMENTAL EXPOSURE

When Julius Caesar was thirty years old, he hadn’t accom-
plished much of anything. He was a local delegate, but
hardly the iconic figure he would go on to become. What
changed? He visited Alexandria and saw the giant statue
of Alexander. He had never seen anything like that. He
dropped to his knees and wept. When he stood up and
wiped his tears, he returned to Rome and spent the next


                             H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   263
thirty years of his life charging ahead on his path to
become one of the most famous rulers in history. Caesar
experienced the Law of Environmental Exposure that day
at Alexandria, and it changed him forever in the most
profound of ways.


I was twenty years old when I stopped playing college
basketball. At that point in my life, I was a different person
than who I am now. I was confused about what I wanted to
with my life. I thought opening my own gym might be fun
or maybe going to chiropractic school. Without realizing
it, I was still sifting and sorting through the dreams and
expectations of others, instead of my own.


One weekend, I attended a marketing event in New Jersey,
just hoping to find a spark or something to push me in a
certain direction. I ended up meeting a twenty-six-year-
old guy named Joel Marion. At the time, I was drawn
to him, but I didn’t fully understand why. Now I know:
he was high status. He had a purpose, he was decisive,
he was certainty in motion, and he was in power. As I
talked to him, I was blown away by his story. In the span
of one year, he had gone from a high school gym teacher
in New Jersey to running an online business that made
him $350,000 in a month. It blew my mind.


Joel Marion is a great guy, and we’re still good friends


264   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
today. He’s one of the most succinct and straightforward
speakers I’ve ever known. When I asked him how he made
the successful transition from nondescript gym teacher to
accomplished online businessman, he told me his steps
before leaving me with two pieces of advice: don’t get
complicated and don’t listen to other people.


As a broke twenty-year-old with no high-status destiny, I
was fucking pumped. I left that event completely invigo-
rated. Within the first month after applying what he told
me, I had an online business as a basketball trainer that
made me $20,000 a month. The business did well. As a
former college basketball player myself, I was able to help
more than 1,000 players. It was a win-win for everyone,
but I made a major mistake. I got totally comfortable
making that kind of money and I coasted. By the time I
was twenty-three, I was broke again and had to move back
to my parents’ house and rebuild my life. After retool-
ing myself once again, I moved back out to California
and eventually met another guy in his midtwenties with
an online business pulling in $150,000 a month. I had
the same feeling of amazement as when I had met Joel
Marion a few years prior. After learning some of his tips
and techniques, my own profits skyrocketed from about
$15,000 a month to $100,000 a month within 150 days.


I share all of this with you not to brag, but to introduce


                               H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   265
the concept of environmental exposure. Everyone who
achieves success has specific visceral moments in life
where they meet someone in person, not online or through
a book. To be able to shake that person’s hand, feel their
energy, and speak directly with them can change your
entire concept of what’s possible. I could have read the
same information Joel Marion shared with me in a book,
but it wouldn’t have had the same effect. This is why I
encourage my most motivated people not just to read
this book, but also to take my video course and attend a
live event. You deserve the best, and you deserve these
life-changing experiences. We call these experiences
“environmental exposures,” and they’re critically import-
ant to your success.



LAW OF SUSTAINED EXPOSURE

The major moments that create environmental exposures
can transform your entire point of view, but you need long-
term factors to make sure you stay at that same level. You
can’t count on seeing Joel Marion every day, right? This
is the Law of Sustained Exposure, and for it to work, you
must remove any factors that bring you down.


Bedros Keuilian, one of my good friends and business
partners, was in Alaska on a family trip a few years ago.
One day, he was walking around on a fishing dock when


266   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
F AST AC T I O N E X E R C I S E : H I G H -S TATUS SELF-LOV E
We all know the importance of self-love. You can’t give love to others
if you don’t have it for yourself. All high-status people love themselves.
It’s at the crux of their effervescent being.

One of my favorite questions to ask clients, students, and customers
alike is, “What are some things that you do for the people you love?”
After they write down their list, I ask them a simple follow-up question:
“Are you doing those things for yourself?” One of the fastest ways to
increase self-love is to start doing for yourself the things you do for
those you love.

I’m a huge proponent of thought loops. I do them all the time, and I
recommend you do, too. Sometimes I’ll just look in the mirror and go
on a rant for a minute or two about why I love myself. It’s not to impress
anyone or call attention to myself. It’s for me alone. It’s fun to tell your-
self all of the reasons why you love yourself and why you deserve love.

One of my favorite exercises at live events is something called the
“self-love letter.” We have everyone in attendance write a love letter
to themselves, then fold it up, kiss it, and put it in an envelope. On that
envelope, they write their address, seal it, and give it to us. Ninety days
later we mail it back to them. By that point, they’ve forgotten about it
completely, so it catches them by surprise. It’s an emotional, powerful
experience to read a love letter from yourself, and it’s something I want
you to have too.

STEP 1
Write a love letter to yourself, fold it up, kiss it and put it in an envelope.

STEP 2
Store the envelope somewhere safe where you won’t be tempted to
open it, and set a note on your calendar to reopen the envelope just
thirty days from now.

STEP 3
Open it back up after thirty days and read it to yourself. You’ll be
amazed what you feel. Some people who do this end up in tears of
joy and gratitude while reading, so be ready for a wave of emotion to
overcome and lift your spirits even more.




                                          H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   267
he struck up a conversation with a local fisherman. The
guy had different buckets everywhere, but it was a bucket
of crabs that caught Bedros’s attention. He noticed one
superambitious crab climbing, mustering every ounce of
strength in its little body to pull itself higher and higher.
Bedros was entranced. Finally, he turned to the fisherman
and said, “Dude, you might want to look at this. One of
your crabs is about to escape.” The fisherman just smiled.
“No, don’t worry. Watch what happens next.” Right on cue,
Bedros watched as the other crabs in the bucket reached
up and grabbed the ambitious one’s little legs and yanked
him back down to the bottom. Bedros just lost it. “Wow,
that is life! That is what people do to each other. That’s
the perfect metaphor.”


That poor little crab lived in an environment that was,
quite literally, bringing him down. You don’t mean to
be that crab, forever trying to escape from a bucket that
keeps pulling you back down. What are the types of things
that pull us down? Obviously, we’re not exactly like crabs.
Other humans typically aren’t pulling us to the floor. But
there are a few red flags to watch out for. Environments
with lots of gossip and constant interruptions will bring
you down. Eleanor Roosevelt once said, “Great minds
discuss ideas; average minds discuss events; small minds
discuss people.” You want an environment that promotes
talk about positive, new ideas, not gossip about other


268   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
people or events. Likewise, you need an environment that
doesn’t interrupt you while you’re working. There was a
study done that found the average worker is interrupted
every three minutes and fifty seconds. About half of these
interruptions are self-inflicted—social media, cell phones,
etc.—and the other half are inflicted by others. These are
the things that bring you down.



POWER OF ENVIRONMENT

We’ve all heard the expression, “You’re the average of the
five people that you hang around.” It’s an old personal-de-
velopment philosophy and, honestly, it’s misleading to
a lot of people new to the game. There’s nothing special
about the number five. It’s important to delete old meth-
ods of thinking like this from your brain. The truth is that
you’re the average of the people you associate most with.
It’s not limited to just five, and it’s certainly not limited to
just people you physically see. If you’re reading a 1,000-
page Steve Jobs biography and it’s been weighing on your
mind for weeks, you are mentally associating with him.


My mentor Dan Peña taught me a simple saying about this.
He said, “Show me your friends and I’ll show you your
future.” Most successful people tend to get this instinc-
tively, and that was the case with Frank Sinatra. The Rat
Pack was created because Sinatra consciously decided


                                 H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   269
he wanted to have people around him all the time that
had something he wanted himself. He wanted a guy like
Dean Martin because he was the epitome of cool. He
wanted a guy like Sammy Davis Jr. so he could increase his
showmanship. He wanted some power, so he befriended
people in the Mafia. If you were a unique person, Sinatra
wanted you around so he could study you up close.


Oprah Winfrey is also known to keep a close council of
valuable people around her. How about the President of
the United States? Every President has an entire cabinet of
counselors and advisors. The real question is this: Are the
lives of Sinatra, Oprah, and the President more important
than yours? Of course not. So, if they’re going to keep
valuable people around them, why wouldn’t you? Like
Warren Buffet says, “It’s better to hang out with people
better than you.” Everyone is judged on the company they
keep in life, so pick out associates whose behavior is even
better than yours, and you will follow in their direction.


The right high-status environment will also help keep
your hunger value high. What’s hunger value? Simple.
Let’s say you set a goal of making $1 million in a year. If
you reach that goal, what happens next? Do you lose that
hunger and simply become content with maintaining at
the same level? Or do you stay hungry and push yourself
even harder? You want your environment to keep that


270   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
hunger value high, and that happens by surrounding your-
self with people who are also hungry.


Simply by spending time around people and watching
them operate in their area of expertise is the fastest way to
learn. Osmosis, which is absorbing knowledge by watch-
ing and then mimicking someone, is incredibly effective.
If someone gave you a book on how to shoot free throws
in basketball, you would never learn as quickly or as effec-
tively as if you simply watched Stephen Curry shoot for
twenty minutes in person. I ask the same question to all
my clients who think simply reading more books is the
answer. How many books do you need to read before you
can become an accurate marksman? Osmosis works best
because it takes advantage of the same method medical
schools use in clinical training: see one, do one, teach one.


In online business, there are two keys to making things
work—traffic and conversion. You’ve got to get people to
your website and then convert them into customers. I held
an event in early 2015 and two of the guys in attendance
were perfect for each other. One of them was excellent
at driving traffic, while the other was a conversion expert.
They both struggled in the other area of online business.
They met at my event, ended up forming a business part-
nership after being exposed to each other through osmosis,
and ended up learning together. Within sixty days, their


                                H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   27 1
joint business venture had exploded. They came back to
another event a few months later and showed me pictures
of their matching Ferraris. Osmosis is a powerful tool. Sur-
round yourself with people you can watch and learn from.



BUILDING HIGH-STATUS ENVIRONMENT

We know what a high-status environment consists of,
but how do we create it? What are the factors that go into
setting it up? Let’s start with a two-step high-status envi-
ronmental workshop.



STEP 1: REMOVE CRABS PHYSICALLY

List every single person you have associated with over the
last week. Every person you’ve talked with, texted with,
e-mailed with, thought about—write them all down. It
helps to just check your phone and go through your texts,
calls, Instagram messages, and Snapchats from the last
week. Put them all on the list.


When you have your list in front of you, identify which
people don’t directly support your goals. Put check marks
next to their names. Everyone left on the list should be
people who directly support your goals. Circle all of
their names.



272   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
If you want to ensure you achieve more of your goals
than you’ve imagined and in less time than you thought
you could, the people with check marks have to go. It
may sound cold, but the reality is they’re already freez-
ing you in motion, and it’s not helping you. They are the
crabs pulling you back down to the bottom of the barrel.
And remember, removing them from your environment
might not mean you’ll never see them again. It just might
mean you have to limit your exposure to them, or at least
consciously select times, places, and events to enjoy with
them where you know they’ll be in a positive mood instead
of crablike.


If this feels a bit scary for you, just remember that it’s not
permanent. There’s nothing to say they can’t come back
into your life down the road, but for now, as you make
these giant shifts in your life to become high status and
pursue your dreams, you just can’t have people blocking
your path.



STEP 2: REMOVE CRABS MENTALLY

Opinions are like nostrils—everyone has at least two. How
can you possibly move forward in your own life if you’re
being weighed down or yanked around by all these opin-
ions? It’s impossible. No successful man or woman in the
history of the world allowed themselves to be surrounded


                                 H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   273
by negativity, distractions, or predictions that disempower
them. We’re going to rewire your mental environment for
bigger, better, faster success by first answering a question.


Who are the four people you admire most? There is no
right answer here. This is totally personal to you. I just
want you to write them down now. Take a few minutes
if you have to, and it is OK if you don’t know them per-
sonally. One of my greatest heroes and people I admire
most is Benjamin Franklin. Sad to say, but I never got to
meet Big Ben.


When you have your list of four people, take a good look
at it. Now you have a new rule: the opinions of the people
on this list matter most to you. Their opinions now weigh
a ton. Anybody not fortunate enough to have made your
exclusive list? Their opinions are nothing more than flat-
ulence in a tornado. I like to carry my own list around
with me, and remind myself every once in a while what
matters most and what does not. If someone uninformed
and not on the list attempts to share their opinion with me,
I will stop them sometimes and say, “Hey, I appreciate it,
but unfortunately, you’re not on the list. Have a great day
though.” Plus, when you want to seek mentorship, guid-
ance, or advice, you now have a concrete list of masters
to turn to.



274   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
LIVE EVENTS

Most people go to the same six places over and over—
their house, work, coffee place, gym, favorite restaurant,
and bar. I highly recommend you add one more crucial
place to that list if you’re going to rise up and live your
dreams. That seventh addition is live events. Have you
ever stopped to wonder, “Where are all the people who
think like me?” They are at live events. What types of
live events? Seminars, workshops, conferences, expos—
they’re all great because you will meet and connect with
so many new, like-minded people. This is one of the many
reasons so many men and women sign up to attend one of
our own events. They want to try it out, and they end up
coming back many, many times. They wouldn’t do that
unless they were getting something truly valuable out of it.



COACHING

Receiving coaching is taking advantage of the Law of Sus-
tained Exposure in the ultimate fashion. Even Alexander
himself had a coach, and it was none other than Aristotle,
the legendary Greek philosopher. Now, unfortunately,
we can’t visit Aristotle’s website and see what kind of
coaching he’s offering, but this serves as an important
reminder—coaching from a person will always offer you
something bigger than books can.



                               H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   275
The best never stop learning, either. Leonardo DiCap-
rio, who is widely recognized as one of the best actors in
the world, still has an acting coach. When Warren Buffet
decided he wanted to become a great bridge player, he
didn’t read dozens of books or study online videos. He
got a fucking coach.



READ MORE, WATCH LESS

I’ve been saying that absorbing knowledge and informa-
tion through osmosis is far more effective than reading
books, and that’s still true. But that doesn’t mean you
shouldn’t read books. People read, on average, ten books
for the rest of their lives after they finish college. That is
one of the scariest statistics I’ve ever learned.


I’m a bibliophile. I love books, and I know how impactful
they can be. One book can change your life. People turn
away from books later in life because they were trained as
kids to associate them with pain. Reading was homework
and thus a form of punishment. It’s a shame.


I’m going to share a quick excerpt from No B.S. Time
Management for Entrepreneurs, a book written by leg-
endary direct-response marketing guru and rabid reader
Dan Kennedy:



276   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
You must read a lot to succeed. Here are the reasons. Number one,
varied, diverse input, ideas, viewpoints, life stories, examples, all
the essential raw material poured into your subconscious mind for
it to sift, sort, try matching up with other puzzle pieces it already
has, so it can occasionally yell, “Eureka!” and hand you something
profitable or exciting without daily flow of new stuff it just sleeps.
Wealth secret, a bonus wealth secret, you cannot manufacture
anything without raw material, not even money. Two, without
exposure to others’ thinking your own range of thought shrinks.
Soon you are a mental midget. Your range of thought narrows like
range of motion shrinks if you don’t move and don’t stretch. Three,
you can’t stay current.


I read a monstrous amount and I still can’t stay current. If you’re
not reading a book or two or a dozen magazines, a few newspapers,
and a few newsletters every week, you must be way, way, way behind.
Pretty soon your conversation reveals you to be a dinosaur. Fourth, if
you have kids you want to set decent example for them. They need to
see you reading. They need to hear you talking about what you read.
When I was a kid, the years my family was dead broke, we made a
regular scheduled weekly trek to the public library for an hour or so.
My father, mother and I each picked out three or four books for the
week. We took them home and we read them and we talked about
them. Now today I prefer going to the book store because I have the
money and I like keeping the books. However, I’m grateful for the
library habit years. It would be a better thing for most families to
do than going to the movies, the arcade or Walmart.


                                     H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   277
If you don’t already, start reading books with regularity.
Another option to consider is audio and video courses.
Video courses come with visual aids, which gives you
a better chance to model the person you’re seeing. But
audio courses are perfect when you’re driving in the car.
Listening to an audio course is going to be far more ben-
eficial for you than listening to the nonsense on the radio.


In that same sense, TV is terrible for you. At its core, it
programs you to be fearful and low status. Worst of all,
the mainstream media mostly focuses on the product,
not the process. When you watch a celebrity show on the
glitz and glamour of their life, you’re not seeing the effort,
tears, sweat, and work that went into building all of that.
It embeds the ideas that celebrities are special people
who have something you don’t, and probably can never
have. Which, of course, is bullshit. You have everything
you need inside of you right now to pursue your dreams
and make them a reality. Trust me, celebrities don’t have
any unique fairy dust sprinkled on them that makes them
special. Most are not special. Some are though, and they
are the ones who have worked their ass off to build a legacy.
Normal TV sucks. Period. Be kind to yourself and try to
avoid it altogether, if possible.




278   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
THE INSTRUCTIVE DEAD

Read biographies of successful men and women through-
out history. Doing this will allow you to learn their personal
secrets to success. See it, hear it, touch it, feel it. Allow
their hard-earned, wise, proven points of view to become
your POV. It will start to seep into your own and create a
synergistic effect for you.


Again, this is the osmosis effect in action. Figure out who’s
really interesting to you and start reading about their
life. You will be shocked and delighted at how many of
the challenges they faced on a daily basis are similar to
your own.



PRIMING

Priming is a fascinating subject in behavioral science.
Here’s the short of it: If I have you hold a warm cup of
coffee, you are going to be a warmer, kinder version of
yourself for a short period of time. If I have you hold an
iced coffee, you are going to be a colder, more distant ver-
sion of yourself for a period of time. This concept can be
seen in many areas that our conscious brain would never
recognize. For instance, images of unity temporarily make
you more cooperative, symbols of wealth temporarily
make you more ambitious, and pictures of delicious food
temporarily make you feel hungry.


                                H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   279
What we want to do is place items in your environment
that will prime you for the attitudes and traits you want
magnified in yourself. Alexander the Great, for example,
slept every night with two items that had a priming effect
for him—a copy of The Odyssey and a dagger, which he kept
under his pillow. That’s how he primed his environment,
but you don’t have to go that far.


Start with the following exercise: What are three things
in your work environment right now that just don’t help
you? They might be things that trigger negative memories,
distract you, or even symbolize laziness and sloth. We’ve
got to get rid of those negative primers. You are not a tree,
stuck in one place. You can move, and if there are things
that aren’t helping you, you can donate them or just throw
them out. Rid your environment of those three items now.
They are only hurting your success, even if you are not
consciously aware of it.


Now, let’s keep it going with the next step: What are
three things you know could inspire you to take more
action or remind you to continue training and ingraining
your high-status signals? It could be pictures of people, a
meaningful object, something from a great past memory.
We want to replace those three negative items you just
removed with these three positive primers. You don’t
have to stop at just three, but start small at first. You’re


280   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
going to find the simple act of swapping three items will
make an instant difference in your output, mind-set, and
energy. Weeks from now, your environment is going to
look completely different, and finally, it will be working
in your favor, instead of against you.



VALUE YOURSELF ABOVE OTHERS

Don’t spend time with anyone who devalues your inten-
tion to evolve. It is your duty to succeed, and anyone who
is not supporting that simply cannot stay if they continue
that course of behavior. I’ll share one last personal story
here as it relates to high-status environment. A few years
ago, one of my closest friends turned thirty years old, but
he was still drifting through life. We hadn’t been able to
see each other as much as in the past, with him living in
Florida and me in California. We kept in touch though,
and I saw him drifting at thirty, still doing the same things
he was when he was twenty-five years old.


It came to a point where I had to change something. I
wasn’t being a good friend by allowing him to stay on that
path. I told him, “Listen, dude, we’re not going to talk for
a while. I hope that you can make this shift in your own
maturity and your own transformation, and you can keep
growing because that’s what I want most for you. I feel like
me being friends with you at this point is not doing it.” He


                                H I G H - S TAT U S E N V I R O N M E N T ·   281
didn’t understand at first, and I knew he wouldn’t. He tried
calling, texting, and e-mailing me. He had mutual friends
reach out to me on his behalf. Even though I wanted to
get back in touch with him, I stuck to my guns.


About six months after that, I bumped into him a market-
ing event. The change was instantly apparent. He had lost
twenty pounds, he was dressed well, and he was sharp in
conversation. He told me he had stopped drinking and
had made six figures in six months after previously only
bringing in a few thousand dollars per month.


I would never take credit for his transformation, because
he’s the one who did the work, but he did tell me my
decision pushed him to truly evaluate his life and think,
“One of my best friends isn’t talking to me right now. Not
because I did something, but because I haven’t been chas-
ing my potential to its edge. This is my wake-up call.”




282   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
                CONCLUSION

We have come a long way together. How much further
you’re going to go from here will be your decision. This
book has given you the tools—the signals of higher status
with ideas, techniques, exercises, and technology—that
can absolutely change your life in an instant, just like they
have for so many others on the planet. When you put this
book down, you’re likely going to feel a surging sense of
excitement, but maybe also a sense of concern.


You now know information no one else does, which pres-
ents an opportunity. This opportunity comes in the form
of a few questions: Where will you go from here? How
much higher status do you want to become? What great
things will you achieve as you become increasingly higher
status? How many more people will you inspire and impact


                                            C O N C L U S I O N ! · ! 283
because of your high status? Challenge yourself to answer
these questions as you move forward.


Or, you can put the book down and forget everything you
have learned here. You can go back to being the way you
were, floating through life like a leaf in the wind. If there’s
one thing I can be certain about more than anything else,
it’s that we only get one life. Like Steve Jobs said, “Life
isn’t a second chance. It’s your only chance.” To me, the
absolute greatest failure someone can have is to possess
the keys to change their life for the better and create the
life they want for themselves, yet do nothing with them.
I know you’re not that kind of person, and I know you’re
not going do that.



WHAT’S NEXT?

You’ve learned how to peel back the layers of the onion
to discover your deeper purpose, your destiny in life.
You’ve learned simple, yet powerful and effective tricks
to change the way you walk, sit, talk, and connect with
people. You’ve learned how to live a carefree life, how to
give truth in a way that strengthens relationships, and
how to captivate attention with your style and charisma.
So, let me ask you: What high-status direction are you
heading in right now?



284   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
Where is your life going? Is it headed in the way you want?
Is it headed somewhere in the middle? Are you partially
still living a life that other people wanted for you and par-
tially living a life that you want for yourself? Or are you a
full-frontal gangster? Have you committed to a destiny for
yourself that turns you on, that lights you up, that looks,
sounds, and smells incredible to you? Have you commit-
ted to a destiny that the mere thought of makes you feel
passionate, excited, and inspired? Is your life heading in
that direction, or not? This is the perfect time for you to
take a step back if it’s not, and really ask yourself what
needs to change.


If I were to shoot two arrows from the same bow and one
was headed just one degree higher than the other, over a
few feet you wouldn’t be able to tell a difference in their
trajectory. If you watched a few hundred feet more, you
would start to notice a small difference. If you tracked
them miles ahead, the difference would be enormous. If
you tracked them even longer than that, at some point
you would realize you couldn’t even tell that both arrows
came from the same bow. The direction of your life works
the exact same way. One small degree of change can
affect everything.




                                            CONCLUSION ·   285
A mentor once told me, “In relationships, business with
friends, or romantic things, these relationships, they don’t
fail overnight, OK? They fail over a series of small, cor-
rectable failures.” You need to ensure that the path of
your arrow is on target because one-degree failures can
mean a world of different results that you aren’t aiming
for. You need to ensure your arrow is not only on target,
but that you’re making the right decisions every day to
keep the arrow in the right direction.


Look out for distractions. Even as you build your high-sta-
tus environment, you’re not going to have complete
control over it. Things will pop up, and they’re going to
serve as tests for you. Tests to see if you can be seduced
off your high-status path into a direction that maybe
isn’t quite so good for you. When those tests arise, you
need to pass them. John Wooden, arguably the greatest
coach in the modern world, taught all his players, “If you
do it once, you’ll do it twice.” He taught them to play


286   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
defense a certain way, in which they always had one hand
in front of the player they were guarding and the other
hand guarding the passing lane. If even for one play a
player decided, “You know what? I’m fatigued. I’m tired.
This game’s already over. I don’t need to put my hands
up here. I can relax,” if they allowed themselves to do it
once, they would certainly do it twice. Pretty soon, it’s
not just something you do sometimes. It’s the new habit.
It’s the new way of doing things.


We have a saying here on Team Capital. You don’t make
exceptions to a rule, you just make a new rule. When you
make an exception to a rule, you think you’re doing it just
once, but you’re not. You’re actually creating an entirely
new rule. You’re changing the game. You’ve changed the
rules, and if you do it once, you’ll do it twice. You need to
make sure that every step of the way when these tests arise,
you don’t just say, “You know what? I’ll just do it this one
time,” because you won’t be doing it just one time. You’ll
be changing the direction of your arrow, and you’ll end
up in a place where you don’t want to be.



WHO WILL YOU BE?

You know by now there are three types of people—high
status, neutral status, and low status. Low-status people
wouldn’t be here reading this right now. They would’ve


                                            CONCLUSION ·   287
read the first page of this book and realized, “Holy shit,
this is way too powerful. This could change my life, but
change is scary. I’m just going to put this book down, walk
away, pretend like I never saw it, put my head down and
go back to living my life with my eyes closed.”


A high-status person would be raring to get started on
their mission in life after reading this book, raring to take
action and make progress on their path. For them, the
action starts now. A neutral-status person would prob-
ably still be reading at this point, but they’d be unsure.
Unsure about their path, unsure about themselves, unsure
if they’re doing it right. If that’s you, this is your time to
choose. This is your time to decide. This is your time to
make a ripple in still water and decide what kind of effect
you’re going to create.


High status is a choice, and it’s one you need to make
now. You need to make a commitment—not to me, but to
yourself—that you are going to continue to increase your
status every single day with tiny, bite-size increments of
progress and improvement. We call that kaizen, which
is Japanese for “improvement.” If you trust the process,
you’ll see how the constant small improvements lead to
massive growth over time.


Are you ready to commit? I hope so, because I’m not going


288   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
to let you go to the next sentence until you decide right
now. I want you to say out loud, “I am a high-status indi-
vidual.” Say it! Now. Don’t wait. I don’t care if someone’s
around you. I don’t care if it’s weird. Be weird. Say it out
loud. “I am high status.” Did you? Good.


Now that you’ve made this commitment to yourself, I
want to invite you to take the next step: get on a team. In
fact, get on multiple teams. We know how important the
Law of Environmental Exposure and the Law of Sustained
Exposure are. Remember, we need both. We need those
big environmental exposures to really reset our standards
and change our set points for what’s possible, and we
need those sustained exposures to keep us grounded. Be
conscious of your old environment and don’t fall prey to
those who used to pull you down. You’ve got to get on
teams with high-status people and surround yourself with
positive people who will continue to raise you up.



THE POWER IS REAL

I also want you to share the information you’ve learned
with others. Not the whole book—there’s no way you could
remember everything, and I don’t expect you to. But share
the stuff that’s been most powerful for you. I want you to
share it with others for two reasons. First, research shows
that when you share information with others, it helps you


                                            CONCLUSION ·   289
learn it faster and on a deeper level. The more you teach it
to others, the better you’re going to be able to remember,
practice, and use this knowledge. Second, there’s just a
certain joy that comes from helping others. There will be a
certain richness added to the quality of your life when you
are consistently helping other people. It isn’t giving advice
just to get one-up in a conversation. You’re sharing proven,
actionable knowledge that they’ve never heard of, that
they’ve never seen before, that is going to create an instant
positive change in their life. When you see that change and
you see that smile erupt on their face, you’re going to feel
a sense of joy rush through you. I want that for you.


I was teaching a sold-out workshop recently and after two
straight twelve-hour days, I was exhausted. I remember
sitting backstage, drinking tea, and talking with my team
when one of the students came up to me. Normally, we’re
busy working during those breaks, but I could tell there
was something different about this guy. He was holding
a big blue gift with both hands. I had no idea what it was
and when I asked him, he showed it to me and said, “Jason,
it took me a lot of courage and a lot of time to actually
show this to you and share this with you and tell you the
story, but I have to now. I have the courage and the confi-
dence to share it with you now comfortably. I’ve been in
the Marines for the last few years, and while I was there,
very early on I was kind of bullied by a lot of people and


290   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
it really got me down. It really made me feel bad. It really
made me think some thoughts that weren’t good for me,
but I found you. I don’t even know how I found you and
the concept of status, but it changed my life. It changed
me completely.


“The way I moved, the way I talked, the way I looked,
the way I acted, the way I thought about everything. My
energy, my confidence, my positivity. Everything trans-
formed as a result of status and as a result of that, not
only did these bullies stop doing that to me, but they actu-
ally became not only good friends of mine, but guys who
looked to me for advice and for leadership. They followed
me. At one point early on, I was very seriously considering
just ending my life, and status stopped me from doing that.
It changed everything for me, and I just wanted to thank
you with this gift because you saved my life.”


He opened the gift and it was a giant blue quilt that he
created, and stitched into the fabric at the top it said,
“Jason Capital saved a Marine’s life.” It was amazing. All
the exhaustion I felt disappeared as I was just overcome
with happiness and joy. I don’t get teary-eyed very often,
but that was an incredible moment. I told him, “Listen,
I didn’t do anything. You did it, but thank you for saying
that.” He’s now out of the Marines and is writing his first
book. He’s living his high-status destiny.


                                             CONCLUSION ·   291
My mom visited the Capital Compound not long after that
happened and she saw the quilt, which we have proudly
displayed on the wall. As I told her the story, tears started
to stream down her face and I told her, “Mom, anyone
could’ve done what I did. You don’t have to cry. If it hadn’t
been me, it would’ve been someone else.” “But Jason,”
she said, “it wasn’t someone else. It was you.”



IT’S YOUR TIME

Be a doer, not a talker. Be an action-taker, a leader. In life,
I’ve discovered there are two kinds of people—ducks and
eagles. Eagles soar through the sky and hunt their prey.
They fiercely protect their families and move with purpose
and pride. Ducks, on the other hand, just waddle around
quacking. They talk a lot, but they move slowly and don’t
get a lot done. Don’t be a fucking duck. You’ve got to be
an eagle. I want you to soar.


My final challenge to you as we wrap up here is to keep
kaizen-ing. Continue to become higher and higher status
every day. Keep self-correcting, and never judge yourself
at any point along the way. Enjoy finding ways that you
can get better, finding ways that you can grow, finding
new ways to love, finding ways to achieve things you
never thought you could. Set goals so grand that you can’t
achieve them in this lifetime, so you remain passionate,


2 92   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
excited, and constantly evolving throughout the course
of your life.


Did you know that most people who open a book never
finish it? Can you imagine that? What if most people who
ran a marathon never finished all 26.2 miles? That’s what
more than 90 percent of people do when they start a book.
They don’t finish it. You are not one of them. You are a
high-status individual. You’ve made it here to the end
and for that, I thank you.


I also want to thank you for your commitment to yourself,
for your commitment to me, and for your commitment to
becoming the highest-status version of yourself. I want
you to keep going, because I hope to see you at one of
my future events and hear how your life has changed for
the better, or you accomplished an amazing personal
goal, or you helped a family member. Whatever it is, I
want to hear it, so I can go back onstage and share it with
thousands of other people. I would love to one day tell
your success story.


John Wooden was once given advice by a mentor when he
was very young, and to me it’s some of the best advice I’ve
ever heard. It’s almost a blessing. Wooden was told, “Be
true to yourself, help others, make each day your master-
piece, make friendship a fine art, drink deeply from good


                                           CONCLUSION ·   293
books, build a shelter against a rainy day, give thanks for
your blessings and pray for guidance every day.”


May you enjoy the ascent and excitement of the beauti-
ful path that awaits you, my friend. Until we meet again,
bon voyage.




294   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
       ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This isn’t easy. As I began to think of all the people I
wanted to express my appreciation for, in their support
and guidance of my growth and evolution, the list con-
tinued to grow.


First, I would like to thank my girlfriend Nataly for sup-
porting and nourishing my creative output, which strikes
at all hours of the day and night, whether we’re at home
in Newport Coast or cruising inside a speedboat through
the blue-water canals of Venice.


Next, I’d like to thank my dear friend and business partner
Bedros Keuilian. He truly is the “hidden genius” behind
many of the world’s most successful brands and faces,
and his continued guidance, support, and mentorship


                                     A C K N O W L E D G M E N T S ! · ! 295
has been incredibly impactful for me. We are building
something truly amazing together, my friend.


To Dan Peña, the 50 Billion Dollar Man, for your incredible
energy and passion for sharing your wisdom.


Taylor Layne, for your excellent work and obsession with
kaizen and always making everything better. Imagine what
we’re going to be creating and how many we’re going to
touch worldwide now. Amazing.


To Z, Steve Ovens, Brent Turner, Jad, Samuel, Steven,
Tiffany, and the rest of our team, I would not be able to
do what I do if not for all that you do.


To Craig Ballantyne, for being the first one to tell me I
had something special as an entrepreneur.


To my friends David Sinick, John Romaniello, and Adam
Gilad. You guys are incredible, and our times together
are treasured.


Of course, the book could never have existed without
the efforts of Kathleen Pedersen, Brad Kauffman, Kevin
Murphy, Andrew Lovell, and the rest of the team at Lion-
crest Publishing. You guys were incredible and on point
every step of the way.


296   · H I G H E R S TAT U S
To my first mentor, Jonny Kest. Your wisdom continues to
blossom for me today, and it has been a privilege to share
some of what I learned from you, years ago, as a teenager,
with millions of people around the globe.


To the men and women who inspired and continue to
inspire my work from afar. To me, this is my favorite
then, when someone’s actions, their shining commit-
ment to their own path illuminates your own. Steve Nash.
Benjamin Franklin. The great Charlie Munger. Robert
Downey Jr.


To the most inspirational women I’ve ever had the plea-
sure of learning about, Helen Keller. I want a slice of your
courage when I grow up.


And finally, to the hundreds of thousands of Team Capital
members worldwide. Your action, your self-love, your
value-giving mentality are going to help us make this
world much, much better for those who come after.




                                     ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ·   297
       ABOUT THE AUTHOR

JASON CAPITAL is founder and chairman of Capital
Research International. For eleven years, he has served
as coach and consultant to Fortune 500 executives, pro-
fessional athletes, Navy SEALs, best-selling authors, and
Hollywood luminaries. He has been recognized as a Top
100 Entrepreneur by President Barack Obama.




                                    A B O U T T H E A U T H O R ! · ! 299
